.. title: Early TSR; Early vs Later GURPS; D&D Dislike
.. slug: 2004-05-14
.. date: 2004-05-14 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


Early History of TSR
--------------------

There's a very interesting interview with Gary Gygax in issues `nine
<http://www.tongue.fsnet.co.uk/OD&DITIESIssue9.pdf>`__ and `ten
<http://www.tongue.fsnet.co.uk/OD&DITIESIssue10.pdf>`__ of `OD&DITIES
<http://www.tongue.fsnet.co.uk/>`__, a zine about Original *D&D*, with a
lot of details about the internals of TSR during Gygax's tenure that
make for fascinating reading for anyone interested in the corporate
history of the makers of *D&D*.  I think it's a wonderful example of how
corporate America goes wrong.



Early GURPS vs. Later GURPS
---------------------------

Gurpsian, `posting
<http://forum.rpg.net/showthread.php?s=&postid=2396466#post2396466>`__
at `rpg.net <http://www.rpg.net/>`__, said that `GURPS
Swashbucklers <http://www.sjgames.com/gurps/books/swashbucklers/>`__
(here actually refering to the original edition) defined GURPS for him
when it was originally released [1]_ and that `GURPS Vehicles
<http://www.sjgames.com/gurps/books/vehicles/>`__ defined for him the
different road GURPS took in the later 1990s.  I think that's an
insightful observation.  I've travelled a way down the road that *GURPS
Vehicles* took and, although I admire it and CORPS VDS and others of
their ilk, I've decide that at this point in my life I don't have any
great interest in going any further along that road: if I want to
design vehicles for a game the crunchiest I'll get is BESM, and Fudge,
Risus, or Story Engine would probably do nicely for most things.



*D&D* Dislike
-------------

I went through a long period where I disliked *D&D* intensely; I think
this is a fairly common reaction.  Why does it happen? I think it is
because `“System Does Matter” <http://www.indie-
rpgs.com/articles/11/>`__: *D&D* imparts a particular tone or flavor to
a game that uses it, a flavor which some find unsatisfactory, and
those dissatisfied may over-react and reject the game entirely.  For
instance, in my case I was irritated firstly by the artificial
distinction in *AD&D* between player characters and the other residents
of the shared imaginary world, a distinction rooted in the different
mechanical approaches to the two types of characters (PCs on the one
hand and monsters and NPCs and later zero-level humans on the other),
and secondly by coarse quantification of beings into classes and
levels, both things which I think tend to restrict the range of
actions and reactions that PCs take with regard to NPCs, forcing them
into an unsatisfactory subset of possibilites by the artifacts of the
*D&D* game mechanics.  I entirely abandoned *D&D* (and Tunnels & Trolls as
well) for a long time.  This was probably an over-reaction, but it did
prompt me to explore the alternatives, which was all to the good.

Eventually I got a grip and got over my *D&D* dislike.  I've played (and
enjoyed) *D&D* `since <link://slug/roleplaying-games#dungeons-and-dragons>`__; many
of the things I disliked about *D&D* have been fixed in the most recent
versions, in an admirable example of applied RPG engineering, but
enough remain that I still prefer other games.

However, there is a valuable lesson in this: *D&D*, as market leader in
this field, makes a set of assumptions that are implicitly accepted
without any discussion, and in fact the vast majority of people
playing *D&D* lack any vocabulary for analyzing and discussing those
assumptions because *D&D* itself has no use for that vocabulary.  Only
those dissatisfied with those assumptions find that they need that
vocabulary, and then they have to look outside *D&D* to find it.  Due to
the `insular nature
<link://slug/2004-05-17#insularroleplaying>`__ of the
roleplaying hobby it may be that many of those dissatisfied players
never find an that vocabulary and the alternatives and end up dropping
out of the hobby.  After all, how frustraing must it be to be
dissatisfied with something and not even have a useful vocabulary to
express that dissatisfaction?

It is for this reason that I think that the `vocabulary <http://www
.indie-rpgs.com/articles/27/>`__ and discussion that
`rec.games.frp.advocacy <news:rec.games.frp.advocacy>`__ produced in
its heyday and which the `The Forge <http://www.indie-rpgs.com/>`__
has produced more recently is invaluable: the people involved in those
forums have taken the time to distill many of the most important terms
and ideas from a vast but largely ephemeral body of folklore and
present them in a lasting and organized fashion.  Regardless of whether
individual elements such as r.g.f.a's “Three-fold Model” or the
Forge's “GNS” are useful, the terminology they've developed to
talk about these things is invaluable: it lets you figure out what you
want from roleplaying games.


.. [1] `Amazon <http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1556341148/qid=1084825641/sr=1-1/ref=sr_1_1/102-8751380-6584954?v=glance&s=books>`__ 
   lists an edition as being published in 1990; my copies of both the
   first and second editions lack a copyright date, as far as I can tell,
   but the first edition refers to the third edition of the *GURPS Basic
   Set*, which has a 1988 copyright..
