.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #18: Undead, Dungeon Cleaners, Goblins
.. slug: p018-ll
.. date: 2010-10-10 16:30:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: area
.. role:: dice
.. role:: item
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.
+ M.A., playing 
  - *James the Cleric* and 
  - *Jeffrey the Monk*.
+ T.A., playing 
  - *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and
  - *Dooley the sly* (a thief).
+ E.A., playing
  - *Curufin the Elf* and
  - *Drusilla the Ranger*.
+ L.B., playing
  - *Taffy the Halfling* and
  - *Alice the Cleric*


Actual Play
===========

Went back through `J`:area: to `50`:area:, where they had discovered
the secret door.  They went through and discovered skeleton.  Jeffry
has the boots.  Spent a bunch of time arguing, which lead to a
wandering monster encounter: 4 goblins easily killed, with no loot.
Went through second secret door, explored `63`:area:, nothing
valuable.  Headed north & Dooley ran into a gelatinous cube.  Others
pulled him back and fled.  Argued about how to kill the gelatinous
cube, which lead to another wandering monster encounter: 22 goblins,
the rest of the tribe, looking for their lost 4 scouts.  This left
half of the party unconscious, but thanks to the staff of healing,
wand of paralyzation, & `sleep`:spell: they survived.  They had used
up their healing for the day, so went back to the keep for 1 week,
then on to `62`:area:, where they opened coffins until they found a
wight.  It rolled a `3`:dice: for its attack on its surprise round,
then lost initiative to the party, whereupon James rolled well and
turned it.  It fled.  They found a hidden compartment with a helmet,
which Dooley promptly put on.  Alas for everybody, it was a `helm of
evil`:item:.  Intra-party conflict ensued, until Dooley was rendered
unconscious by Curufin's sleep.  At the end, the `scroll`:item: went
to Alice, the `+1 flaming sword`:item: to Jeffry, the `elven
boots`:item: to Dooley.  Gelatinous cube loot: 4 cp, 5 sp, 5 ep, 3 gp,
2 pp, `wand of fireballs`:item:.

Reflections
===========

I was really off at this session, even though I had been looking
forward to it.  The kids were unfocused and I was unable to get them
to concentrate.  Eventually I gave up.  The kids played some of Lily's
new games (Doodle Dice) until Charlita called for her kids to come
home.


.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
