.. title: Recent Reading and Viewing
.. slug: 2004-04-02
.. date: 2004-04-02 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading,recent viewing
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


Recent Reading
--------------


+ *A Gentleman of France*, by Stanley Weyman.  Project Gutenberg,
  October, 1999, Etext #1939.  This was the first novel I read on my
  wife's Palm m505, and I was surprised by how well reading on the Palm
  (using Weasel Reader) went.  The novel is great swashbuckling fun, too.
+ *The Cloud Atlas*, by Liam Callanan, Delacorte Press/Bantam Dell
  2004.  A very interesting work that doesn't fit comfortably into any
  genre.
+ *Protector*, by Larry Niven, 1973.  Books on Tape.  1998.  This was just
  as absorbing to listen to as it was originally to read.  Niven's
  interesting ideas retain their ability to enthrall.
+ *Celestial Matters*, by Richard Garfinkle.  Tor, 1996.  This is a
  *very* clever novel.  Well worth reading for the interesting ideas.
+ *Pattern Recognition*, by William Gibson.  Putnam, 2003.  An
  interesting mystery, largely lacking the science fiction elements of
  his earlier works.
+ *Dragon's Lair*, by Sharon Kay Penman.  Putnam, 2003.  A Medieval
  Mystery.  This is the third in her excellent series about Justin de
  Quincy, after *The Queen's Man* and *Cruel as the Grave*.  Interesting
  characters and situations make an excellent historical mystery.


Recent Viewing (Akira Kurosawa)
-------------------------------


+ `Nora inu <http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0041699/>`__, also known as
  *Stray Dog* - directed by Akira Kurosawa, and starring Toshiro Mifune,
  Takashi Shimura, and Keiko Awaji.  1949.  I saw this on a IFC Indie Pulp
  showing; it's an interesting look at Japanese police and criminals.
+ `Dai-bosatsu tôge <http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0060277/>`__, also
  known as *The Sword of Doom* and *Daibosatsu Pass* - Directed by
  Kihachi Okamoto, written by Shinobu Hashimoto, based on a novel by
  Kaizan Nakazato, and starring Tatsuya Nakadai, Toshiro Mifune, and
  Yuzo Kayama.  1966.  Another Samurui Saturday showing, this movie
  completely avoids a normal ending.  Apparently this is based on a well-
  known story which is not all retold in the movie, and has been filmed
  a number of times.
