.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #15
.. slug: p015-ll
.. date: 2010-07-10 23:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/rpg/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.

+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly*
  (a thief).

+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.

+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.

+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*

Actual Play
===========

Coming out of **38** down the slope the party was surprised by an
ambush at the tee, where the bugbears from **35** and **39** were
waiting.  They retreated up the slope, drawing the bugbears after
them.  They wiped out the bugbears at some cost to themselves, and
returned to the keep, where they sold the urn for 175 gp.  10 gp 11 gp
8 gp  7 gp 10 gp 6 gp 9 gp 7sp 12 gp 7 sp.

Returning after a few days they missed seeing the tripwire for a new
deadfall, tripped it, and several were injured by the fall of heavy
stones from the ceiling, while another line ran to a clanging alarm,
bringing the chief bugbear and mate from **36** and 6 guards (who had
been out hunting last time).  The PCs retreated back out the tunnel,
got in position on either side of the entrance and ambushed the
bugbears as they came out.  They killed the chief and some of the
guards, and the others retreated to **36**, where they barricaded the
door shut.  Currifin and Drusilla broke the bracings and the door
swung open, but poor Drusilla fell and knocked herself out.  She was
struck immediately by three of the remaining bugbears, but was quickly
pulled back by James.  Alice was nearly killed (down to negative HP)
but was pulled back and healed (requiring 2 Cure Lights from James),
and then she cured Drusilla.  Eventually they killed the remaining
bugbears and discovered their treasure.  They found the secret
passage, and killed the 3 fire beetles and took their light clands.

They then returned to the bugbear lair and discovered the stores in
**37** and decided to return to the keep for healing and a wagon.
They returned with the wagon (200 gp deposit, 20 gp rent) and killed
the humanoids in **40** and **41**, while freeing the eval human, who
accompanied them, all unsuspecting, back to the keep.

.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
