.. title: WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #4: Razorwings, Giant Octopus, and Octopons
.. slug: s004-50F-2010-10-21
.. date: 2010-10-21 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,50 fathoms,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #4: Razorwings, Giant Octopus, and Octopons
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:date: 2010-10-21
:version: 2011-02-23 21:07:07


.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: skill

.. |50F| replace:: `50 Fathoms`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |50F| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports are available in html_ from T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms/

.. _`50 Fathoms`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plotpoints.html


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* T.K.B. — GM
* B.MC.  — playing Azrulektos, a Kraken warrior/wizard
* C.A.H. — playing Karl Kroc, a Masaquani treasure hunter and navigator
* M.A.H. — playing Moorumah, a charming but rather dim Grael 


Introduction
============

Session report kindly provided by M.A.H., and lightly edited.

Actual Play
===========

We have $3663 and a Letter of Marque, which allows us to attack
pirates and get a percentage of the value of the ship and cargo.  We
paid the Letter of Marque, and then headed out 4 days out to Knells
rock and 4 days back.  Before heading out, we go to our stash first.
Azerlectos notices that around the chest on the floor of the ocean are
a bunch of dead fish men.  Kahena like to eat Doreen.  We loaded up on
food and headed back to Baltimore.  We received a total of $1800
profit.
 
Mooramuh was trying to see if there are any pirate ships, and there
were some observed in the Sea of Pirates in the area ast of Balkus and
Calib's rock.  We filled up one cargo space with provisions, which
cost $500.  We decide to go to the third island from the South in the
Whip Islands.  Before we go, we buy one canon for $200, which takes up
one cargo space, plus ammunition and grapeshot.  We end up buying 10
grapeshot, 10 chainshot, and 200 shot for a total of $300.
 
Off to the Whip Islands Again
-----------------------------

Then, we are attacked by swarms of bird-like creatures.  **[Razor
Wings]** We defeat these swarms, but some crew members are lost.  John
Smith has perished, and Caras also died.  The dead were buried at sea.
After some expert navigation from Karl, we arrive at the island, where
we search for treasure.  We do find treasure, worth $80, plus gold and
silver items worth $1000.  We also find a very ornate short sword
which is obviously not just an ordinary short sword.

Octopus Pie!
------------
 
Then, Azrulektos notices a snake-like creature coming out of the ocean
towards us.  Actually, it's huge, and there's more than 1.  It turns
out to be an octopus.  Yay!  We defeat the octopus and make calimari.
We then descend down into the dark, watery pit from which it came...
Octopii travel backwards, with their tentacles first, and then their
head wth the eye following behind.

Octopon Caves
-------------
 
We encounter a large tunnel that splits into smaller tunnels.  One of
the smaller tunnels opens up into a 20-30 yard wide chamber, with part
of the chamber being above water.  There are a lot of ledges here,
some above and some below water.  Lots of mermen statues are here,
some with swords and some unarmed.  We conjecture that this is some
sort of gathering place for a cult that worships the octopus.  Then,
on one of the ledges, we spy a small golden glint. The glint turns out
to be a small, golden triangle.
 
In addition to the several ledges, there are a large number of tunnels
leading from the chamber.  We also see a throne at the far end of the
gloomy chamber.
 
Mooramuh goes to investigate the throne.  She sits on the throne and
commands all creatures to follow her and bow before her.  Then,
something grabs her from the murky water below and pulls her
underwater.  A large battle begins, with mermen creatures coming up
from tunnels seen and unseen.  They party takes refuge on the throne
ledge, and then Trix finds a secret passage behind the throne.

Riches and Wounds, Not In That Order
------------------------------------
 
We retreat into the secret passage, with some brave members of the
party retreating last to cover the others' departures.  Then, we
proceed with great haste to flee the island.  We escape to the boat,
with 8 of the mermen in close pursuit.  Azruleektos loses the use of
one arm from having been seriously injured by fire and acid in the
underground chamber.  We finally make it back to the boat, with only a
few Klingons.
 
M.A.H. gets a benny next session for shuffling.
 
Everyone gets 3 experience points, and everyone gets an advancement
since we all passed 10 experience points.
 

Aftermath
=========

Each PC each got **+3 XP**.

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

