.. title: WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #1: Shipwreck, Savages, and Giant Monkapes
.. slug: s001-50F-2009-12-04
.. date: 2009-12-04 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,50 fathoms,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #1: Shipwreck, Savages, and Giant Monkapes
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:date: 2009-12-04
:version: 2011-02-23 20:59:34


.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: skill

.. |50F| replace:: `50 Fathoms`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |50F| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports are available in html_ from T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms/
.. _`50 Fathoms`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plot-points


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* T.K.B. — GM
* B.MC.  — playing Azrulektos, a Kraken warrior/wizard
* C.A.H. — playing Karl Kroc, a Masaquani treasure hunter and navigator
* M.A.H. — playing Moorumah, a charming but rather dim Grael 

Introduction
============

M.A.H. contributed the following (lightly edited) actual play report.

Actual Play
===========

After an extended character creation session (made longer due to
C.A.H. being an HOUR late -- BAD C.A.H.), our 50 Fathoms campaign
is off to a great start.

It all begins upon a ship, and with three particular sailors
aboard.  Azrulektos, a squidy-looking thing, could summon great
skull-headed bolts of water and enjoys participating in Fight Club
With Giant Creatures (one-on-one, of course).  Then there is Karl,
who looks almost human, except that both his hair and skin are
some undefinable color, but let me tell you its a doozy of one.
Karl is a Warrior, highly trained in the art of Shoot First
And Spend Two Rounds Reloading Later.  Finally, there is the
lovable, but dumb-as-a-stone (and heavy as one too) Moorumah
a walrus-looking being who speaks loudly (and innanely) and
carries a very big club, and also occasinally trees.  They are a
lovable band of misfits (Azrulektos is Highly Curious, Moorumah has a
Big Mouth, and Karl is equally Noticable, but in a way that I have
forgotten).

Anyhoo, it all starts on a ship and with two elements. Fire and
Water.  A big storm made the water, and our inept now-deceased
cook provided the fire.  These forces combined to create a ship
broken in half, and a lot of sailors drowned or beached on an
island.  Also, of particular worry to Moorumah, there are logs
floating all over the ocean.  The same logs she spent so long
carrying back and forth onto the ship, with one long log under
each arm.

The captain assigns the trio to look for food, and they promptly
return with Moorumah carrying a 'Nana' (banana) tree.  As this takes
care of only one of the four food groups, the captain sends them
out again.  This time, they manage to kill a small dinosour, and
take it back to the beach.

LITTLE DID THEY KNOW that the Red People (the savage **Ugaks**) had
attacked the beach while they were gone.  All the other sailors
are gone, as are the nanas!  What is a trio of (mostly)
semi-aquatic beings to do?  They follow the tracks of the Ugaks
down the beach in hope of rescuing the other sailors.  Along the
way they find a small boat but broken on the other side of a reef,
and materials to make a sail and other necessary components so
that a makeshift boat is feasible.  But, then they notice tracks
going off into the jungle, and decide to follow.

The tracks end in a huge clearing, with a few scattered Red People
surrounding a large pool of red goo.  A huge statue of a Giant Monkape
looms prominently behind the pool.  There are 6 sailors lined up next
to the pool, tied up next to a shaman who is directing proceedings.

Azrulektos sneaks around to flank the pool, and effectively
neutralizes the shaman, while Moorumah charges into the scene like
a charging bull elephant, and Karl fires off his one shot before
sitting down to reload for two rounds.  Unfortunately the dying
shaman pushes one of the prisoners into the pool of red ooze, and
a Giant Monkape rises from the ooze.  There is a great deal of
combat which takes place in slow motion shakey-cam.  Azrulektos
goes one-on-one (see previous note about hobby) with the Giant
Monkape, and ultimately defeats it with a little help from some
escaped sailors.  The other foes are handily defeated by the trio.

In the end, we get many pieces of eight, as well as 4 experience points
each.  The DM bribed M.A.H. with the promise of an additional experience
point if she would write up a summary of the session's events.

She does so, despite having forgotten all the characters names.

Ding - 1 xp for me!!!!!!!

Aftermath
=========

Each PC each got **+4 XP**, except Moorumah who got **a bonus +1 XP**
for M.A.H. writing up an actual play report.

(Azrulektos: 4 XP, Karl Kroc: 4 XP, Moorumah: 5 XP.)

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

