.. title: Rushing Valley D&D, Session #8
.. slug: s008-rv-2009-12-30
.. date: 2009-12-30 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,d&d,rushing valley
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/rushing-valley
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



Rushing Valley D&D, Session #8
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
Wednesday, 30 December 2009
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:version: 2010-02-07 18:51:13


.. role:: comment
.. role:: company
.. role:: spell

.. |HnB| replace:: :company:`Hammer & Block`
.. |AnB| replace:: :company:`Axe & Bow`
.. |SP| replace:: :company:`Serpents`
.. |WB| replace:: :company:`Wolf-banes`
.. |th| replace:: :superscript:`th`

This is an `actual play`_ report from the “Rushing Valley” *Dungeons
and Dragons* campaign.  These actual play reports are available in
html_ feeds from T.K.B.'s blog and from P.D.F.'s
`RPG forum`_\'s `Rushing Valley Campaign`_ `History forum`_.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/rushing-valley
.. _`RPG Forum`: http://pdf-rpg.motion-forum.net/forum.htm
.. _`Rushing Valley Campaign`: http://pdf-rpg.motion-forum.net/rushing-valley-campaign-c1/
.. _`History Forum`: http://pdf-rpg.motion-forum.net/history-f2/


Attending
=========

(Probably) Clockwise round the table, starting with the DM at 6 o'clock:

+ P.D.F. as DM
+ T.K.B. playing Droston a'Seamus
+ B.MC. playing Polonius, Onchu's rowdy young cousin from Riverton
+ M.A.F. playing Bartha
+ C.A.H. playing Onchu

Unfortunately, J.H. had too many time commitments to continue with the
campaign.  We hope he'll return later.


Introduction
============

Eirnin stayed behind to help evacuate the village, while Onchu, Bartha,
Polonius, and Droston determined to continue the quest for the Elves.

Actual Play
===========


Evening of July 29
------------------

Droston lay sorely wounded.

Brock confirmed that the dwarven ruins dated from the last time the
goblin Horde descended upon the land.  That war lasted until almost no
one on either side was left.

Brock went off to town on his pony to get dwarven powder to blow up
the bridge.  When he returned **[Was on the night of 29th or was it
not until the next day, the 30th?]**, he had Whaler in bag, and told
us that the little maggot had been caught stealing.  Bartha
immediately began indignant protestations, but the rest of us
reluctantly convinced Brock that — regardless of Whaler's character
flaws — he was a friend of the Lady of the Valley and our guide to the
next stage in our perilous quest, so Brock eventually threw the bag to
Bartha, with a warning about what Whaler could expect if he was caught
thieving again.

Droston, meanwhile, drifted in and out of consciousness.  Luckily,
Brock had brought some Dwarven elixir.  It had quite a kick, but after
drinking it Droston was feeling *fine*.  And it healed him, too.

July 30
-------

To get to the elves, we have to travel through some caverns infested 
by evil goblinoids, to find a long passage in the underdark that will
bring us to the elves, who can help us drive the goblinoids back
through the Chasm.

Somebody **[Brock, or Whaler?]** told us:

    Durgeddin, master smith, driven out of his caverns by hobgoblins,
    lead his folk south into the wilderness to new caverns, from which
    he planned to take the fight to the evil goblinoids.
    Unforutnately, that complex was also overrun, and Durgeddin
    vanished from history.

So, we needed to head southeast, back towards the goblinoid horde, and
then take one of the ravines running south from the main river valley,
following it up to the mountain, then up and over the saddle in the
mountains, to the entrance to the caverns.  Whaler promised to lead us
there.

As we headed southeast along the river valley, we paralleled the road
further up on the mountainside, in the forest.  We soon found two
goblin scouts approaching us, forerunners of a goblinoid caravan along
the Stone Road.  We hid, and the lower scout went past, but the upper
one was too close, so Bartha attacked him and pinned him, and Droston
hacked his throat out.

A short time later we hid from another scout.  At some point it began
to rain.  We pushed on.

Later in the day we came to a place where the goblinoids had a large
camp.  They had cut down and burned or destroyed everything in the
valley, from the river clear up the steep side of the valley.  As we
were crossing the camp **[At a small stream coming down to join the
river?]** there was a mudslide on the wall of the valley which came
crashing and splashing down the stream.  Bartha made it across to
solid ground and Droston made it back to solid ground, but both Onchu
and Polonius were caught by the mudslide and were barely able to catch
hold before they were washed over the cliff into the river.  Droston
was able to throw a rope to Polonius and pull him out and then
together they pulled Onchu out.  Bartha tied and untied ropes.

July 31 and August 1
--------------------

Whaler warned us about an oncoming goblin scout, so we hid again until
it went by.

August 2nd
----------

We come to stream, rushing down to the river from the south-east, and
that is the way we go.  There is no road, and we continue traveling
through the forest.  Eventually we see a hill that looks like a tooth,
with smoke from the hillside.  There is a road that leads north east,
which Whaler said goes back to the dwarven road in the river valley,
but Whaler told us we have to follow the road up the hillside and over
a saddle, to the entrance to the caverns on the other side of the
hill.  And then he fled as fast as his little wings could take him. 

We follow the road up the saddle as fast and as quietly as we can,
hoping to elude any watchers.  Two hobgoblins were watching not far
beyond the saddle.  We came around the corner and everybody shot,
killing one hobgoblin in the first round and the second hobgoblin in
the second round.  This got us 2 light crossbows with 20 bolts each, 2
long swords, good quality studded leather, and 2 light shields.

We could see that entrance to the caverns was up a small ravine in the
hillside, with a door ajar at the far end.  Droston snuck up to the
open door, while the others came behind more slowly.  They were
attacked by archers behind slits in the rock.  Droston flung the doors
wide and yelled at the others to come quickly, and began loosing
arrows at the two hobgoblins beyond the rope bridge over the chasm.

Here followed a long melee, with Polonius and Onchu fighting on the
bridge.  A hobgoblin pushes Polonius off the bridge, but Onchu grabs
him.  Bartha  rushes the hobgoblin over the edge, but he grabs the
bridge, but breaks, swinging them across the chasm and bashing them
against the wall, 30 feet below.  Two more **[goblins, hobgoblins]**
approach from the other side.  Everybody on the bridge trying to climb
and fight.  The hobgoblin and Polonius grapple, Bartha kills the
hobgoblin, and **[Polonius, Onchu]** avoids the falling body.

The other goblinoids flee the room and bar the far door.

We end with Onchu and Polonius on one side of the chasm, and Bartha
and Droston on the other side, next to the exit.

Aftermath
=========

No XP were awarded this session.

Bartha was gravely wounded (3 WP).

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

