.. title: Recent Reading
.. slug: 2008-02-05
.. date: 2008-02-05 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


+ *Finding Serenity*, edited by Jane Espenson; BenBella Books, 2005.

  + “The Reward, the Details, the Devils, the Due”, copyright 2004 by
    Larry Dixon.
  + “The Heirs of Sawney Beane”, copyright 2004 by Lawrence Watt-Evans.
  + “Asian Objects in Space”, copyright 2004 by Leah Wilson.
  + “The Rise and Fall (and Rise) of Firefly”, copyright 2004 by
    Glenn Yeffeth.
  + “Who Killed Firefly?”, copyright 2004 by Ginjer Buchanan.
  + “*The Train Job* Didn't Do the Job”, copyright 2004 by
    Albé-Shiloh, Inc.
  + “Serenity and Bobby McGee”, copyright 2004 by Mercedes Lackey.
  + “Firefly vs. The Tick”, copyright 2004 by Don DeBrandt.
  + “We're All Just Floating in Space”, copyright 2004 by Lyle Zynda.
  + “More Than a Marriage of Convenience”, copyright 2004 by Michelle
    Sagara West.
  + “Zoe: Updating the Woman Warrior”, copyrigth 2004 by Tanya Huff.
  + “Whores and Goddesses”, copyright 2004 by Joy Davidson.
  + “The Captain May Wear the Tight Pants”, copyright 2004 by Robert B.
    Taylor.
  + “I Want Your Sex”, copyright 2004 by Nancy Holder.
  + “Just Shove Him in the Engine”, copyright 2004 by John C. Wright.
  + “Mirror/Mirror”, copyright 2004 by Roxanne Longstreet Conrad.
  + “Star Truck”, copyright 2004 by David Gerrold.
  + “Chinese Words in the Fireflyverse”, copyright 2004 by Kevin M.
    Sullivan.
  + “Listening to Firefly”, copyright 2004 by Jennifer Goltz
  + “Kaylee Speaks”, copyright 2004 by Jewel Staite.
  + “Unofficial Glossary of Firefly Chinese”, copyright 2004 by Kevin
    M. Sullivan.
  + Additional materials copyright 2004 by Jane Espenson.

+ *Cloud Castles*, by Michael Scott Rohan, copyright 1993;
  AvoNova/Avon Books/The Hearst Corporation, August 1995. The 3rd in
  Rohan's *Core and Spiral* series, featuring Stephen Fisher. More of
  Fisher's destiny is revealed.
