.. title: Recent Reading; Sales of Midlist Authors
.. slug: 2005-10-03
.. date: 2005-10-03 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading,
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Monday, 3 October 2005
======================

Recent Reading
--------------

This is a couple of weeks of reading.


+ *The Game of Kings*, by Dorothy Dunnett, copyright 1961, copyright
  renewed 1989; Vintage Books/Random House, May 1997.  First in the Lymond
  Chronicles.
+ *Queens' Play*, by Dorothy Dunnett, copyright 1964, copyright
  renewed 192; Vintage Books/Random House, May 1997.  Second in the Lymond
  Chronicles.
+ *Eight of Swords*, by David Skibbins; Thomas Dunne Books/St.
  Martin's Minotaur/St. Martin's Press, April 2005.  An interesting
  mystery.
+ *A Gladiator Dies Ony Once: The Further Investigations of Grodians
  the Finder*, by Steven Saylor; St. Martin's Minotaur/St. Martin's
  Press, June 2005.  The second collecton of Roma Sub Rosa short stories,
  after The House of Vestals.  I think I like this series of Roman
  mysteries the best of the ones I've read.
+ *SPQR VII: The Tribune's Curse, by John Maddox Roberts*; Thomas
  Dunne Books/St. Martin's Minotaur/St. Martin's Press, April 2003.
  While Saylor's Gordianus and Davies' Falco are to some degree
  outsiders amongst the inner realms of Rome's political machinations
  through which they often wander, but Roberts' DeciusCaecilius Metellus
  the Youger is definitely an insider.  I think it was one of John Maddox
  Roberts' "Roman Empire in Space" SF books that introduced me to the
  Roman Empire (at one remove) when I was a youngster.
+ *SPQR IX: The Princess and the Pirates*, by John Maddox Roberts;
  Thomas Dunne Books/St. Martin's Minotaur/St. Martin's Press, June
  2005.  I've apparently missed SPQR VIII: The River God's Vengance.

Sales of Midlist Authors
------------------------

Back in January of 2004, Walter Jon Williams `said <http://groups.goog
le.com/group/rec.arts.sf.written/msg/4778a2e82173f391>`__:

    In 1990 the average midlist science fiction novel, by a non-name
    writer, would ship 75,000 copies and sell 60,000. Now the average
    midlist novel ships less than 20,000 and sells less than 10,000.

    It was possible to make a living selling 60,000 paperbacks a year, but
    if you sell less than 10,000, you'd better have a McJob.

In February 2005 Tobias Buckell summarized_ his survey of
genre advances.

.. _summarized: https://web.archive.org/web/20050211040808/https://tobiasbuckell.com/archives/001423.html
