.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #20: Stoned
.. slug: p020-ll
.. date: 2010-12-28 16:40:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: area
.. role:: dice
.. role:: item
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.
+ M.A., playing 
  - *James the Cleric* and 
  - *Jeffrey the Monk*.
+ T.A., playing 
  - *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and
  - *Dooley the sly* (a thief).
+ L.B., playing
  - *Taffy the Halfling* and
  - *Alice the Cleric*
+ E.A., playing
  - *Curufin the Elf* and
  - *Drusilla the Ranger*.


Actual Play
===========

Back to `62`:area: via `J`:area:.  While searching a gray ooze cam in,
separating Dooley and Glen from the rest.  Ooze decayed Dooley's
sword, Dooley accidentally shot James (rolled a 1), missiles killed
ooze, which popped and filled room 1 foot deep.  Lily finally thought
of wood coffins.  Back to town.  Alice heals Dooley.

Back via `J`:area: to fork to `62`:area.  To `60`:area:.  Took silver
hand mirror.  `61`:area  Took great ax, chain, 135 gp, bracelet worth
700 gp. `64`:area:   Taffy, Alice, Dru, Curufin enter, Medusa stones
Taffy and Alice, then Dru on the way out.  Medusa has 18 CHR.  Curufin
tries to go back in, Dooley grabs him and throws him on the ground,
Medusa comes to the door, Curufin fails save, Dooley and Glen make
it.  Glen uses the wand of paralyzation, Dooley borrows shield from
James, stabs the medusa, finds the stone-to-flesh potion, unstones the
unlucky (Curufin, Dru, Taffy, Alice).  And back to town.

.. _kids: link://slug/the-kids
