.. title: WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #5: Pirates, Salvage, Healing
.. slug: s005-50F-2010-11-04
.. date: 2010-11-04 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,50 fathoms,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #5: Pirates, Salvage, Healing
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:date: 2010-11-04
:version: 2011-02-23 21:07:34


.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: skill

.. |50F| replace:: `50 Fathoms`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |50F| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports are available in html_ from T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms/
.. _`50 Fathoms`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plot-points


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* T.K.B. — GM
* B.MC.  — playing Azrulektos, a Kraken warrior/wizard
* C.A.H. — playing Karl Kroc, a Masaquani treasure hunter and navigator
* M.A.H. — playing Moorumah, a charming but rather dim Grael 

Introduction
============

**[Session report by B.MC., lightly edited]**

Actual Play
===========

Here Be Loot!
-------------

After escaping with the only serious injury being Azrulektos's burnt
and useless arm, our adventurers sorted through the booty captured.
Mooramuh forced open the chest and we found a magic ring that made the
wearer feel better about sailing (a **[Captain's Ring]** which gives a
+2 bonus to Boating) which was given to Karl Kroc, a yellow potion
(restores power points) and $4,375 ($3,938 after 10% salvage fee).

A Sad, Sad, Day!
----------------

On the 8-day voyage back to Baltimus to find healing for Azrulektos’
arm, we happened upon the black pirate ship, a sloop known as the “Red
Fox”, attacking the crumbster ship named “Windfall”.  We defeated the
pirates, saving some of the Windfall’s crew, and captured the pirate
captain.  Unfortunately, Mooramuh accidently threw her beautiful
mallet far, far away into the ocean never to be seen again.  The Fox
had been chasing the Windfall for two days.  We found $1,070 in
general loot on the Fox and also found a pair of thieves slippers (+1
climbing and stealth) which Azrulektos took.

A Happy, Happy, Day!
--------------------

We were given a $6,750 salvage bounty for the Windfall and $10,000
bounty for the Red Fox when we reached Baltimus.  We sold our skiff
for $5,000 and bought the Red Fox for $20,000.  We found, through
amazing, stupendous luck, that there was a very powerful healer named
Benga Mamoto in the village of Tulago.  He was from an Earth slave
ship.  We also bought Mooramuh a 2-handed great axe ($500) with a
strap ($100) to replace her mallet.  She subsequently bought a formal
gown ($268) and went on a date with the weaponsmith Grimnar, having a
wonderful time talking about our adventures.

Moorumah the Shark Killer!
--------------------------

We hired two privateers and two novice sailors to help sail the ship
and also resupplied for the trip to Tulago.  We also repainted the Red
Fox sea green and the sails blue before leaving port.  Our ship was
attacked a half day from Tulago by a giant shark that was almost as
large as the ship.  Azrulektos pummeled the shark with screaming water
bolts and Mooruamuh jumped to its back attempting a killing blow.
Unfortunately she missed and the shark began to swim to the depths
with her holding on.  Azrulektos fired another volley of bolts and
stunned the fish which sank to the depths.

Healing
-------

We easily found Benga and he agreed to heal Azrulektos’ arm for $1000
and the promise that we would search for his brother Machawi (~410 lbs
and 7’8” tall), who is larger than an elephant (whatever that is), and
was last seen on the slave ship the Black Prince.  The healing took
one week during which time the crew relaxed and Mooramuh worked
lifting heavy things and making $35 spending money.  We ended up
having $2537 after paying crew, repairs, supplies and various trading
and fees.

Aftermath
=========

Each PC each got **+2 XP**.  B.MC. submitted a session report, so
Azrulektos got a **bonus +1 XP**.  (Azrulektos has 15 XP, Karl Kroc
has 14 XP, Moorumah has 14 XP).

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

