.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #10
.. slug: p010-ll
.. date: 2010-03-28 23:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice(strong)
.. role:: skill(emphasis)
.. role:: spell(emphasis)

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.

+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly*
  (a thief).

+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.

+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.

+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*

Actual Play
===========

They went to room **24**, where they ran into 2 hobgoblins.  1 whip, 1
javelin, 2 longswords, 2 chain.  #1: 5 cp, 2 sp, 3 ep.  #2: 2 cp, 6
sp, 6 ep.  Silver armlet, 135 gp.  The 2 captured guards took service
for arms & armor & room & board.  

Taffy let the gnoll loose, and it attacked her.  Dooley and Jeffry
join the grapple and kill the gnoll after it drives Taffy to –2 HP.
Dooley let out the orc with Glen holding a crossbow on him.  The orc ran
for the head of the valley, and Dooley yelled “Come back!”, even as
he, Taffy, Curafin and Drusilla loosed arrows.  Dooley and Taffy's
shafts killed the orc.  Jeffry lost his Lawful alignment and his
monkhood for suggesting, with glee, torture and murder.  100 gp reward
from the captured Merchant.  +1 magic dagger (to Glen).  Jeffry gave
his share of the treasure to Drusilla.  “Jeffry the Shamed!”

Afterward
=========

M.A. was *not* happy that Jeffry was not a monk any more, and I had
him have Jeffry do some penance between games to regain his happy
monkhood.


.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
