.. title: Keep on the Borderlands Session C4: Character Generation, part 4
.. slug: c004-ll
.. date: 2009-05-03 13:45:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,bd&d,actual-play,kids,b2,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/rpg/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: store
.. role:: dice

L.B. was in town visiting the other side of her family, so I got to
take her to dinner Sunday.  Since she would be playing in the
Labyrinth Lord game with the rest of the kids_ when she was here this
summer, I thought we could create her characters during lunch.  She
thought that was a great idea.  She did wonder if people would mind us
playing D&D in the restaurant, but I told her nobody would mind —
everybody in the restaurant would be talking anyway, and all we'd be
doing is talking and rolling dice.

I was pretty scatterbrained that morning, and had managed to forget my
dice, but we stopped at :store:`Dollar Tree` on the way to the
restaurant and picked up some cheap :dice:`d6`\s.  While we were
waiting to be seated she started rolling up her characters, and
finished rolling them up after we'd been seated and while we were
waiting to be served.  I'd also managed to forget a pencil, but did
have a pen, so instead of writing directly on the character sheets we
wrote on some 3×5 cards I had. She'd already decided she wanted one to
be a sorceress and one to be a halfling, so we figured out which
scores should go to which character [#arranging-scores]_ and then
rolled :dice:`4d6` for the characters' starting money, since we didn't
have :dice:`d8`\s.  After that we worked through buying equipment for
her halfling, mostly while waiting for our food.  Once the food
arrived, though, not much else happened but eating. **:-)** She did
have a name for her magic-user/sorceress, Alice the Sorceress, and we
decided she'd pick a name for her halfling later, perhaps the next
time she's at my house.  (I‘ve got some books that would be useful for
inspiration for halfling names.)

Anyway, after lunch when I dropped her off I gave her some character
sheets and told her I'd e-mail her the information about the
characters — that way we'd both have the information — and that we'd
buy equipment for Alice the Sorceress later.  After I dropped her off
I stopped by the office and sent the e-mail.

.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids

.. [#arranging-scores] Rather than the strict “Roll 3d6 in order for
   STR, DEX, CON, INT, WIS, and CHA” that *Labyrinth Lord* gives as
   the main way to generate abilities, I let the kids roll 3d6 and
   arrange the scores the way they liked them, and let them roll a
   couple of extra characters and take the highest set of scores.
