.. title: Gaming Fun; Recent Reading
.. slug: 2003-07-25
.. date: 2003-07-25 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,rpg,tri-stat dx,besm chdh,recent reading,uresia: grave of heaven,centauri knights,guardians of order
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

.. role:: series(title-reference)

Tri-Stat dX Core System Role-Playing Game
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Guardians of Order <http://www.guardiansorder.com/>`__ have just
published `Tri-Stat dX`, a synthesis of `BESM` and `SAS` (their superhero
roleplaying game).  It was written by Mark C. McKinnon and Adam Jury,
Stephen Kenson, Jef Mackintosh, David L. Pulver, and Jesse Scoble, and
is available in book form for 10$US and in `PDF <http://www.rpgnow.com
/product_info.php?products_id=1881%26SRC=FreeTriStat>`__ form for
download for free.  dX is slightly crunchier than BESM (it adopts SAS's
Power Modifier Values (PMVs) and changes the scale of charater
points), and it changes a few things, like Own a Big Mecha, but it
seems to be pretty good.  Visually, it has a very clean, spare look,
from the black cover with the Tri-Stat dX logo on the front and the
Guardians emblem on the back, to the layout and organization of the
text inside.  The only art in the book is on the few pages that are
advertisments for other Guardian books or their Magnum Opus imprint:
no anime-style art here to put off the anime-phobic.  It ought to
provide a useful datapoint in the discussions about art-filled,
expensive (color, hardback, etc.) game books and plainer, more text-
oriented game books.  It will be interesting to see how this turns out
for Guardians.

I was surprised to see (in the ads in the Tri-Stat dX book) how
reasonable the license fees are for the use of dX and BESM through
Guardian's Magnum Opus creator-owned roleplaying game publishing
imprint, especially since Guardians handles all the printing and
distribution of the game.  This seems like it ought to be boon to game
creators who are not ready to plunge into game publishing themselves,
but have a good game they needed published.

Update: there is a Tri-Stat dX `character sheet <http://www.silverages
entinels.com/pdfs/tristatdx_charactersheet.pdf>`__ available from
Guardian's web site.



`BESM: Cold Hands, Dark Hearts`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Guardians also recently published `BESM Cold Hands, Dark Hearts`
(`CHDH`), a gothic horror setting viewed through an anime lens,
reinterpreting western supernatural material in the light of the
Japanese manga, anime, and games.  It's written and illustrated by
David Okum and, despite the (im)moderately cute gothic toddler on the
front cover, it looks like it should support games ranging from the
lighthearted to the downright serious, though throughout it
concentrates on the action and adventure side of things.

`CHDH` opens with a manga (a welcome change from plain flavor text) that
sets out a rather grim backstory.  David Okum's art here is more spiky
and less cute than some of his other illustrations in the book, and
despite the unfortunate duplication of one page of the story and the
resultant omission of another (but see below), it does a good job of
laying out the backstore and setting the mood.  (And all this before
the actual title page!) This is especially important because we later
learn that the story is explicitly intended to familiarize players
with the setting.  Guardians has made the `whole story
<http://www.silveragesentinels.com/pdfs/chdh_preview.pdf>`__ available
on their `website <http://www.guardiansorder.com/downloads/>`__ as a
preview, including the missing page, so GMs can point players to it
for an introduction to the game.

Once we get past the title page, we find a short introductory chapter
covering `CHDH`'s sources and looking at how Japanese culture combines
with western supernatural traditions to produce new interpretations in
manga, anime, and games, and how western media has been influenced in
tern.  It's a nice summary of large subject and touches a good number
of the influential anime in passing.

The second chapter, the bulk of the book, covers character creation.
It immediately lets us know that player characters are intended to be
supernatural entities in a behind-the-scenes mystic struggle, and then
lays out the character termplates for the suggested supernatural
entities, along with brief descriptions of magic systems used by each
type and some additional background material.  There are ten different
types of entities, ranging from shapeshifters and vampires to
sorcerous humans to spirits of the dead and zombies, and a couple of
the entity types have sub-types, so there's plenty of variety.  I was
pleased to see how well the BESM system specific rules fit in with the
background material, completely avoiding the "overwhelming list of
stats" syndrome.  The chapter continues by briefly listing the schools
of magic and spells availble to each school, followed by an
alphabetical list of the spells themselves.  Each school is specific to
a type of supernatural entity, and mechanically the schools are
represented by a default level of the Magic attribute for each type of
entity.  It's a good example of how to some flavor on top of the
generic effects-based BESM attributes.  The chapter concludes a some
short bit of useful advice about character generation.

The third chapter covers playing in the `CHDH` world.  It discusses what
the players are likely to be doing and the daily lives of player
characters and their interactions with the unsuspecting masses around
them.  It also describes some important places around the world, how
magic works and lists some esoteric organizations and example Items of
Power.

The fourth chapter is the GMs section.  It gives some guidelines for
setting up a campign, including some possiblities for why the player
character would be working together.  It lists some monster archetypes
and describes the seven Daemon Lords who are major villians (or heros,
to some) in the setting, along with suggestions for how to use them in
play.

The fifth and last chapter is an example campaign.  It includes three
lightly detailed scenarios, a short discussion on how to expand the
campaign, and five brief scenario ideas.

Finally, the book ends with the appendicies: a world map, a biography,
and an index.

With `CHDH` Guardians of Order has continued with the BESM tradition,
seen in `Centauri Knights` and `Uresia: Grave of Heaven`, of engaging
settings in small packages.  Like those earlier books `CHDH` is full of
neat ideas and includes interesting system material as well and
providing useful examples.  I think it's a good example of minimalizst
setting, and anyone feeling overwhelmed by the many super-detailed
settings available would do well to look at `CHDH`.  It's also worth a
look for those seeking a less angst-filled horror setting than White
Wolf's World of Darkness.

Recent Reading
--------------

+ `A Mist of Prophecies` by Steven Saylor.  This, the nineth book in
  Saylor's :series:`Roma Sub Rosa` series about the Roman detective Gordianus
  the Finder, takes up with Grodianus back in Rome after his travels in
  search of his supposed dead son, and fittly starts out just as
  depressingly as the last book ended.  I hope things start looking up a
  bit for Gordianus and his family.
