.. title: Playing Classic Traveller in 2020
.. slug: playing-classic-traveller-in-2020
.. date: 2020-03-16 10:11:52 UTC-04:00
.. tags: rpg,classic traveller,starter traveller,d&d,my gaming history
.. category: gaming
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Finally playing Classic Traveller
=================================

A friend of mine who was in my gaming group back in the 1980s read the
article `Traveller: A Classic Science Fiction Simulator`_ at
`Tor.com`_ and found it interesting.  We discussed it, and he
downloaded `Starter Traveller`_ from `Drivethrurpg.com`_ (it is free)
and started reading it.  I had the PDF already, and I printed it out
and started reading it as well.  I also found a physical copy for sale
on the Internet, so I ordered that as well, and it was much more
convenient to use than my printout in binders.

.. admonition:: My Gaming History

   My experience with Traveller back in the 1980s was minimal: another
   friend had the little black box with the three little black books
   (LBBs), and we rolled up characters (which at the time seemed way
   more complicated than `D&D`, which we were used to).  Then we tried
   to figure out what to do, which was not immediately obvious to us.
   `D&D` has the obvious core activity of going down in a dungeon and
   killing monsters, but Traveller was a lot more wide-open.  My
   friend hadn't bought an adventure (which I find very useful for
   getting an idea of core activity of a game) and he'd bought the
   `Basic Set`, so there wasn't an adventure in the box.  We didn't
   realize that we could use the various checklists and procedures to
   improvise an adventure on the spot.  So we didn't get far, alas.

   I bought several new editions of Traveller over the years
   (`Megatraveller`, `Traveller: The New Era`, `Traveller 4, Traveller
   5`) but never found the chance to play them.  But my interest in
   Classic Traveller grew once I found it being talked about in
   Internet forums and blogs.  I bought a copy of the original rules
   and several other LBBs, and some of the farfuture.net CD-ROMs.

Anyway, yesterday afternoon I went over to my friend's house with my
`Starter Traveller` box and some other Classic Traveller materials for
show and tell, and then we rolled up three characters each, 2D6 for
attributes in order.  I had two survive character generation (because
we were using the hardcore “you can die in character generation” rule
that was the default in Classic Traveller), both had been in the Army,
both having miserable strengths (one of them couldn't carry his rifle
**and** a clip of ammo; don't know how he made it through the Army),
and the weakest only had one term and the other only had two terms,
though he made Lieutenant.  My friend had one character survive
character generation, also from the Army, and he had more terms that
either of my characters, though I don't remember how many, and ended
up a Lt. Colonel if I remember correctly.

Then we ran a practice combat between my friend's character and my
better character: Submachine Guns at short range (1–5 meters) in a
forest!  Classic Traveller doesn't have initiative, so everything
happens simultaneously, and we both shot the other and each had an
attribute reduced to zero, so we both fell unconscious.  After ten
minutes we both woke up, and decided to **not** try to kill each other
again.  Since he had Medical-1 he used his medical kit and healed us
both.

Then we tried our hand at what some think is `Traveller`\ ‘s core
activity: shipping cargo to another planet (once we finally figured
out that standard shipping of non-speculative cargo is covered in the
“REVENUE” subsection of “STARSHIP ECONOMICS”, and not near “TRADE AND
COMMERCE” section that we mistakenly thought it would be near).  So,
we rolled up some cargoes and High, Middle, and Low passages for our
arbitrarily chosen world.  Then we worked out all the expenses for our
ship, the standard Type-A Free Trader, to see if we could keep up with
them.  And we could, though there seemed to be little slack.  Success!
This lead us back to the “REQUIRED STARSHIP COMPONENTS” subsection of
the “STARSHIPS” section to figure out how much fuel was available for
maneuvering in-system after a jump.  (10 tons out of 30 tons of fuel
was available for the maneuver drive and the power plant, if I
remember correctly.)  We looked at speculative cargoes a bit, but
didn't actually try them.  We weren't sure how you found the selling
price once you were at your destination.  (A second roll on the
“Actual Value” table?)

At some point we looked at experience and character development in
Classic Traveller.  As far as we can tell, that section is missing
from `Starter Traveller`, though it is in the 1981 LBBs and `The
Traveller Book`.  Is it in the 1977 LBBs?  I'll have to check.

Anyway, we had a lot of fun.  Next time we get together we're going to
design a starship or two and try space combat!

Reflections Afterward
=====================

The version of `Starter Traveller` available at DrivethruRPG.com seems
to be a better scan than the one off the Classic Traveller CD-Rom at
`farfuture.net`_, and is arranged in three separate PDF files, one for
each of the three books in the set, which is much more convenient for
printing and for viewing more than one at once on a screen.  Alas,
neither of them had select-able text, each page being a scanned image.

I had brought my copy of the 1977 edition of Classic Traveller, 3
digest sized (5½×8½ inches) booklets in the classic box, along with
some of the other books/supplements/adventures in that format, the
Quick Link Interactive reprint of the 1981 LBBs in one volume, and the
hardcover edition of `The Traveller Book`.  I find the pamphlet format
of the original Classic Traveller books charming: they're an easy size
for reading away from the table, they seem to have lasted pretty well
over the years, and it is relatively easy to refer to two of them at
once.  On the other hand, `Starter Traveller`\ 's division into a book
of the `Core Rules`, another book of `Charts and Tables`, and a final
book with adventures, is very handy at the table where you have room
enough to have both `Core Rules` open and `Charts and Tables` open to
the the specific pages for the tables matching what you're reading in
`Core Rules`.  Also `Starter Traveller` has a “TYPICAL ACTIVITIES”
checklist on p. 9 of `Charts and Tables` (that I can't find in the
3LBBs) that basically outlines how you could improvise a Free
Trader-based adventure at the table.  The hardback `The Traveller
Book` is sturdy and easy to use at the table, but not as convenient as
`Starter Traveller`\ ‘s split into `Core Rules` and `Charts and
Tables`.  The `Core Rules` booklet had helpful page references to
`Charts and Tables` for each of the major sections, and these were
usually a 2-page spread with all (or nearly all) of the tables for the
subject being discussed.  Despite the charming nature of the LBBs, I
think having the separate `Charts and Tables` book from `Starter
Traveller` is so convenient that we'll continue using it at the table.  

I found it useful to have multiple versions of Traveller available
while reading `Starter Traveller` to cross-check things: I found an
erratum in `Starter Traveller` this way.


.. _`Traveller: A Classic Science Fiction Simulator`: https://www.tor.com/2020/01/10/traveller-a-classic-science-fiction-simulator/
.. _`Tor.com`: https://www.tor.com
.. _`Starter Traveller`: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/80190/CTSTStarter-Traveller
.. _`Drivethrurpg.com`: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/
.. _`farfuture.net`: https://www.farfuture.net/
