.. title: FF:TIRpG: Shaggradd's Hives of Peril: Play Session #1
.. slug: ff-tirpg-shaggradds-hives-of-peril-play-session-1
.. date: 2011-09-24 22:28:12 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,fighting fantasy,ff,ff:tirpg,actual-play,spoilers
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/fighting-fantasy
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


..
  area has CSS on the blog.

.. role:: area
.. role:: npc
.. role:: creature
.. role:: spell(emphasis)

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing the adventure `Shaggradd's Hives of Peril` from
   `Fighting Fantasy — The Introductory Role-playing Game`__
   (FF:TIRpG), so if you haven't played that you might want to skip
   this entry.

   __ link://slug/fighting-fantasy-rpgs#fighting-fantasy-the-introductory-role-playing-game

As I've mentioned before_, I've been planning to use the RPGs derived
from the `Fighting Fantasy` gamebooks for pickup games with the kids_,
and today I was able to put that plan into action, starting as planned
with `Fighting Fantasy — The Introductory Role-playing Game`
(FF:TIRpG), using the second adventure from the the book, `Shaggradd's
Hives of Peril`. [#well]_

.. _before: link://slug/fighting-fantasy-rpgs
.. _kids: link://slug/the-kids

Attending
=========

M.A. and E.A. were watching a movie, but T.A. (as always) was eager to
play, and as we were getting started C.A., who had heard us talking
about gaming earlier and said he wanted to play, wandered in and
wanted to join in, so I had him roll up a character too.

+ T.K.B. — GamesMaster.

+ T.A. played Ezarik (e-ZAR-ik) — SKILL 8, STAMINA 17, LUCK 10.

+ C.A. played Oswald — SKILL 10, STAMINA 21, LUCK 12, who was already
  lost in the treasure vaults in the dark.

Actual Play
============

T.A. had rolled up his character and was speaking with
`Shaggradd`:npc: when C.A. showed up.  I decided that Ezarik would
meet C.A.'s character, Oswald, down in the treasure vaults, where he'd
been sitting in the dark after his candle burned out after he‘d run
from a monster.  So we rolled up a character, who turned out to be
skilled, strong, and lucky, named him Oswald, and went back to Ezarik.

`Shaggradd`:npc: blindfolded Ezarik, lead him around by hand, spun him
around in a circle, told him to hunker down, and pushed him into a low
tunnel.  After he refused the 2% extra on the 10% entrance fee for her
to cast a *Reverse Teleport* on him, she pulled off the blindfold and
pushed him further in, and slammed a door on him.  After he lit his
lantern, he could see that he was in small tunnel with rotting wood
sides, that opened out into a taller and slightly larger roughly
circular room.  The floor of the tunnel and the room were both dirt,
and in the cent of the room was a pit trailing down into blackness,
with a rope tied to a black spike hammered into the rotting wall of
the chamber, covered with spider webs.

Descending the rope he ended up in a `1`:area:, small chamber dug into
the earth, with four exits at right angles.  He took the exit to the
west, leading to `30`:area:, a large cavern with a skull carved into
the east all, with three tunnels leading out through missing teeth in
the skull.  He headed out the middle passage, and after a little while
heard the sound of a stream, but couldn't see it. [#no-bridge]_ A
little further on he found a little man, about a metre tall and
dressed in what appeared to be the entire skin of a small dragon\
[#dragonhide]_, wings and tail included, cleverly formed so that the
rear feet were boots, the fore feet were gauntlets, and the head was a
helmet, with the face appearing through the mouth of the beast,
sitting next to a puddle of wax that was all that left of his candle.
This was Oswald, a hobbit, and as it turned out he was very hungry.
He had lost his way while being chased by a monster, and then his
candled had burned out, leaving him waiting in the dark, as he hand
not taken advantage of `Shaggradd`:npc:'s offer of a `Reverse
Teleport`:spell: either.

Continued on to `35`:area:.  Pulled lever.  Could see just a *bit* by
the light of a phosphorescent plant growing on the surface of the
cavern.  Not knowing where they were they headed out the only entrance
they say, and back to `30`:area:, where they recognized the skill.
This time they took the right (north) passage to `31`:area:, and
started to enter the middle passage there, but a `troll`:creature:
popped out of the passage and attacked them.  After exchanging a few
blows with the troll and getting a small cut on one cheek, Oswald
fled, leaving behind his companion and his companion's lantern!
Ezarik stayed behind and fought the troll for another round, and then
pursued his companion, and luckily the troll did not follow.

Meanwhile, Oswald ran back down the passage to `30`:area:, bounced off
the wall and ran through the passage to `1`:area: and straight across
and out the passage that lead to the collapsing stairs, slide down the
stairs, stumbled across the gravel beach, through the water, and
finally sat down on the ground beyond the stream in `19`:area:, in the
dark again.  He could smell some delicious fruit nearby….

Ezarik, fleeing the troll, guessed at the likely route Oswald had
taken and quickly found him, sliding down the collapsing stairs into
`19`:area: and wrenching his arm in his fall.  Glad to be reunited,
Oswald drinks some water from the stream while Ezarik eats some of his
provisions.  The smell of delicious fruit was coming from some large
green fruits on a strange underground tree.  After they rested a few
minutes they continue exploring, taking the passage east until it
forked and then taking the north-east slanting passage until it ended
in a dead end, `20`:area:.  Returning to the fork in the passage, they
entered a very hot room half filled with burning coals, `21`:area:,
where a fiery lizard squeaked at them.  Oswald squeaked back, but the
lizard was puzzled.  They left that room through another door, where
they discovered a tall red-headed man sleeping (`22`:area:).
Unfortunately, he woke up and was very angry, demanding that they
leave immediately.  They went back through the door to `21`:area:,
Oswald apologizing to the man for waking him up, and the man calming
down and going back to bed.  Then they returned to the cavern with the
stream, where Oswald climbed up into the tree and started to pick a
fruit, noticing a key in the tree as he did so.  Unfortunately, just
at that moment, five of the fruit hatched into large angry goose-like
red birds, and began attacking.  Oswald fled east into the passageway,
as did Ezarik, though he tried and failed to grab the key as he fled.

And this is where we ended for the evening.

Over the course of the evening we learned that Oswald's dragon armor
and dragon tooth sword were not family heirlooms, that he could play
both the piano and the flute, and that he had lost a wand and a map
earlier in the these caverns.


Reflections
===========

The simplicity of `FF:TIRpG` makes it a great pickup game. There are
only three stats, SKILL, STAMINA, an LUCK, so rolling up a character
is trivial, which is great for when somebody unexpected shows up in
the middle of things and wants to play — say, for example, a
three-year-old, C.A.  And the rules are so simple that after you have
played a few times you can easily remember them, so you don't even
need to have your rule book handy.

Playing with a three year old has a few pitfalls.   C.A. has a great
vocabulary, and uses pretty complicated sentences, but his
pronunciation is somewhat unclear, adding to our communication
difficulties.   He's not familiar with the fantasy genre, so doesn't
know that there are no flashlights or cars or technology.  And he
hasn't quit figured out that once his character is in a situation, he
has to deal with the situation using only the resources he has at hand
already and what's available in the situation.

On the other hand, he's also a lot of fun to play with.  He comes up
with lots of interesting details about his character, he tries
interesting things, he has fun seeing what's going to happen next.

T.A. liked the game, though it was not his favorite.  (I think he's
used to more detailed systems, and prefers them to something this
simple.)

.. [#well] The first adventure from `FF:TIRpG`, `The Wishing Well`, is
   shorter.   It is also redone in Arion Games' `Advanced Fighting
   Fantasy`, 2e, with example characters, so I'll probably start our
   `AFF2e` game off with that adventure.

.. [#no-bridge] It's not immediately obvious from the map, but later
   area description text makes it clear that the corridor from
   `30`:area: to `35`:area: crosses the stream on a bridge.  Since I
   hadn't read that area description yet, I went with an unseen but
   not unheard stream.

.. [#dragonhide]  C.A. was dressed in a dragon suit, making him look
   much like an Anne Geddes picture, so I carried that element into
   the game.
