I got an interesting game today: the 1991 game the “Lord of the Rings
Adventure Game” from Iron Crown Enterprises, which was the first
holder of the Tolkien franchise for RPGs.  ICE got its start with
Rolemaster, which started as a detailed add-on combat system for D&D
and developed into a very detailed RPG of its own, based on open-ended
d100 rolls: high was good and on very high or low rolls you rolled
again and added the new role for high or subtracted for low,
continuing infinitely in either direction, They then got the Tolkien
franchise and developed Middle Earth RolePlaying as a slightly
simplified RPG for those who wanted to play in Middle Earth, but did
not want all the complexities of the full Rolemaster system.  The
adventures were stated in such a way that you could play them either
with Rolemaster or MERP, and had some short guidelines to help the GM
adapt them for other games.  They had a lot of success and their
Middle Earth products were extensive and highly regarded.

Lots of folk used them with other RPG systems.  But they wanted to tap
the larger Tolkien readership and so wrote the Lord of the Ring
Adventure game as a much simpler game that they hoped would draw
interested readers and the viewers of the animated Hobbit and Lord of
the Rings.

(Did you ever see them?  I have fond memories of the the animated
Hobbit, though I knew it only through reading the graphic novel
adaptation that used art from the movie when I was at Uncle Chuckie
and Aunt Karen’s place in New York one summer.  I finally saw it,
probably on TV some years later.)

Anyway, the Lord of the Rings Adventure Game (LOR hereafter) comes in
a box with a 32 page rulebook, a 64 page adventure with 6
pre-generated characters, a 32 pamphlet of 4 pages of backstory for
the 6 pregens and area maps for the adventure, several poster sized
maps, including a nice color one of Middle Earth, and (missing in my
copy, as the seller had noted in the description) 2 six-sided dice and
a sheet of standup cardboard figures of people and creatures and the
pregens.

Characters have 12 stats: 5 capabilities (Strength, Agility,
Intelligence, and Movement) and 7 skills (Defense, Melee Offensive
Bonus, Ranged Offensive Bonus, General, Subterfuge, Perception,
Magical, and Endurance).

You pick one of 9 character types (Hobbit Scout, Elf Scout, Human
Warrior, Dwarf Warrior, Elf Warrior, Human Ranger, Half-elf Ranger,
Human Bard, and Elf Bard), which sets your equipment and capability
values and starting skill values, and then you have six +1 bonuses to
add to your skills as you choose, no more than +3 to any one skill.
If you have +1 or more in magic you get two spells per +1 bonus.  Some
of your equipment gives bonuses to your stats.  You roll 2d6 plus a
stat bonus versus a target number or an opponent’s roll.  Meet or
exceed an unopposed roll to succeed, while you can tie on opposed
rolls.  In combat take the attacker’s Offensive Bonus minus the
defenders Defensive Bonus and roll 2d6 and look the result up in a
chart to see how much damage is done and whether the defender is
knocked unconscious or killed outright.

Oh, your character type also sets your Endurance.  The dwarf warrior
has the most at 60 points and the elf bard the least at 30 points.

There are 15 spells, all very in keeping with the magic seen in the
novels, which is to say not tremendously powerful.  There is a
firebolt spell.  Magic items typically add a plus to a stat, or let
you do something you couldn’t before.


You get Experience Points (EP) for every stat roll (remember, that’s
capabilities and skills) depending on how hard the target number was,
for every point of damage inflicted, with unconsciousness and killed
results worth more, and for every point of damage the caster of a
spell takes to cast the spell.  (Every spell costs the caster Damage
to cast!). You also get EP for good ideas.

Maneuvers are how you use your stats.  Some, like climbing a tree
have a set difficulty.  Others the GM sets the difficulty, from
Routine (4) to Absurd (18).

Activities are normally automatically successful if you have the
equipment and time (setting up camp, digging a ditch), but turn into
GM moderated maneuvers if you don’t have the time or equipment
(digging a ditch to hide in before the opponents you want to ambush
show up).

There are 14 action sequences.  These things like combat (one of the
action sequences) where there is a general sequence you follow to do
something, from sneaking through a town at night to tracking through a
wilderness or ambushing an enemy.

These can be adjusted by the GM for circumstances and they encourage
you to make up your own.  You might make one up for when someone is
wanting to convince a crowd of something.  They are multi-step
procedures for doing something.  (I think they would be quite useful.)

The included adventure is a mix of programmed sequences to help the
new GM and players learn the system, where the choices the players
make determines what section you turn to next, and the sections are
broken up into action sequences and the results determine which
section the players go to next, GM notes on how to run or adjust
things, and descriptions of what happens.

They encourage you to use figures or counters to represent characters
in combat, and movement is given in inches, to be measured on the map,
if you draw one, or on the table if you just set out the figures at
the right distances on the table.  (You could easily use a gridded
battle map, if you have one.)

Anyway, I like it.  It might be a good possibility for Christmas
gaming this year.
