.. title: WVHTCF Necessary Evil, Session #12: That Dastardly Dr. Desctructo!
.. slug: s012-NE-2012-08-15
.. date: 2012-08-15 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,necessary evil,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/Necessary-Evil
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF Necessary Evil, Session #12: That Dastardly Dr. Desctructo!
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

:Date: 2012-08-15
:Version: 2021-07-20 14:42:48


.. role:: pc
.. role:: npc
.. role:: org
.. role:: group
.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: power
.. role:: racial
.. role:: skill
.. role:: xp
.. role:: place

.. |NE| replace:: `Necessary Evil`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

.. _`Necessary Evil`: http://www.peginc.com/games/necessary-evil/
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games/savage-worlds/
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plot-points


.. 
    Us
.. |OF| replace:: :org:`Omega Force`
.. |SV| replace:: :pc:`Stygian Veil`
.. |M|  replace:: :pc:`Mauler`
.. |FC| replace:: :pc:`Force Caster`
.. |R|  replace:: :pc:`Raum`

.. 
    Our minions and allies
.. |F|  replace:: :npc:`Frank`
.. |MR| replace:: :npc:`Mr. Fixit`
..
   Our Fin Mercenary
.. |Q| replace:: :npc:`Quillik`


.. 
    Our associates
.. |V|  replace:: :npc:`Vince`

.. 
    everybody else
.. |C|  replace:: :npc:`Champion`.
.. |VS| replace:: :group:`V'Sori`
.. |?|  replace:: **[???]**
.. |D|  replace:: :npc:`Dr. D`
.. |DO| replace:: :npc:`Dr. Destructo`
.. |DN| replace:: :npc:`Dr. Destruction`
.. |MM|  replace:: :npc:`Mechnoman`
.. |A|  replace:: :npc:`Anvil`
.. |H|  replace:: :npc:`Hydra`
.. |R6| replace:: :npc:`Ricky Six-Fingers`
.. |NG| replace:: :org:`Neptune Guard`
.. |AT| replace:: :group:`Atlantean`
.. |L|  replace:: :org:`Longshoremen`
.. |W|  replace:: :npc:`Willy the Fin`
.. |AD| replace:: :npc:`Aiden`
.. |O|  replace:: :npc:`Overmind`



This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |NE| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports will be available in html_.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://slug/necessary-evil-sessions-index


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* M.A.H. — GM
* C.A.H. — playing Force Caster.
* T.K.B. — playing Raum, a vaguely demonic creature.
* B.MC.  — playing The Stygian Veil.

NPCs
====

* Quilik — Our Fin?



Actual Play
===========

Note on Teleport Tube: Press Red Button to go to Atlantis, press
Blue button to return.

Fin traitor went with Dr. D.

Before the |VS| destroyed Atlantis it was in regular contact with
the rest of the world.  Since the comm systems haven't changed, our
comms should work there.

|SV| went first and was able to send and receive teststs.  We have
Atlantis-rated (underwater) flashlights! 

When activated, the Teleport Tube ends up physically in Atlantis,
while here in our hideout it is out of phase.

One building in the district — gold in color — seems unscathed. |SV|
notices at least one unexploded |VS| bomb.

Killed 8 |VS|: 2 fusion grenades each, |VS| blaster  rifle, special
bandoleer for underwater work.  Fin body suit could be modified, +2
armor $15000 to buy.  10 lb & humanoid flesh. |?|

Both medallions (the one we brought with us and the one |R| found |?|
along with some scrolls in a ruin) both glow slightly.

8 more |VS| killed.

The first |VS| scroll said |VS| started colony long ago on [|VS| word
for Earth] at [|VS| word for Atlantis] under water because of large
reptiles — eventually contact with [Atlantis] was lost.  When they
came back to retake [Atlantis] the resulting fight with colonists who
evolved into Atlantians killed off the dinosaurs as a side effect
(not *quite* nuclear winter, but close).  

The second |VS| scroll had |VS| descriptions of ritual.

|FC| puts on medallion and skips into temple: 2 stairwells going
down.  He is attacked by and damages a swarm of insane ghosts.  |R|
pulls him out while wearing the other medallion.  We looked for and
found the high priest's medallion in another ruin.  |SV| went in,
killed swarm, rest came in, left our Fin on guard outside.

|SV| telekinetically picks up the crown.  Mad Atlantean steps out
and says “You must die for stealing that crown!”  We talk him down by
telling him we're working for folks who want to get the crown back to
the Atlantean King.  He agrees to come with us.  We ask if there is
anything useful besides the crown we can take back to help defeat the
|VS| and he suggests the sacred library.  We put it in the portable
hole.  He recognizes the portable hole as the “Satchel of the Ocean”,
a powerful Atlantean artifact.

The Mad Atlantean Priest's name is Aden.

Our merc says some other Fins attached a timer to the big bomb: 30
seconds (5 rounds) and counting down.  He books it back to the
Teleport Tube.

So do we, and we escape before the bomb explodes.

There is a Legend that a Legions of Atlantean Warriors went into deep
sleep for Atlantis's hour of need, to be summoned by the rightful
Atlantean King only, with the crown of Atlantis.

We scan in the scrolls, working all night, while the Mad Atlantean
Priest sleeps.

The Transporter Tube was already phased out, so the teleporter still
works. 

100K credits each from Dr D!

Send scrolls, crown, and Mad Atlantean priest to |D| with a minion we
know is his.

A few hours later all comm links blink and |F| says “there's a
worldwide broadcast coming in!”  It is |D|: he is an Atlantean — he is
King Merrous [spelling |?|], the greatest hero of all.  He is backed
by the Neptune Guard (including |MM| (formerly the infamous |A|), |H|,
and others).  He has infiltrated all evil organizations and super
villains.

We check, and he has deactivated the Transporter Tube — it was remote
powered.  (We got him the power plant.)  We remove a few essential
bits so it won't work and hide it someplace.

We move all our financial assets before |D| can confiscate them and
set up new financial accounts, communications, and computer accounts.

|V| calls to tell us that |R6| put out a hit on us.

The Fin's code of honor is to follow their boss as long as their boss
is alive and paying, so our Fin is with us as long as we pay him.

We move all our stuff, including out Ants, to the caves under the
Chinese place.  The owner and his son don't know about the caves, and
have never seen us coming and going.  We have room to expand.  The
caves are connected to a network of caves.

The whole planet is engulfed in chaos: Atlantean vessels rising from
the sea, |VS| ships swarming about, etc.

Encrypted message from |MR| — for the moment he's willing to play
along with our suggestion to spy on |D| for us, but he's an engineer,
not a fighter.



Aftermath
=========

We each got :XP:`+5 XP`.  

|R| has an extra bennie for something.

Reflections
===========

    “Curse your sudden but inevitable betrayal!”

Questions
---------

1. I don't remember anything specific |D| said about the |OF| (that would
   be us) in his broadcast.  Did he?

#. Since we weren't invited to play in his sandbox/army, I suppose
   he is blackening our name.  Do we hear about anything like this?

#. What's the reaction amongst the other super villians.

#. What's his problem with us, anyway?  All we ever did was do his
   dirty work and on rare occasion maim known |VS| collaborators.

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":Version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

