.. title: 4e, Session #1: Goblins and Villagers
.. slug: s001-4e-2009-11-10
.. date: 2009-11-10 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,d&d,4e
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/4e
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



4e, Session #1: Goblins and Villagers
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:version: 2012-10-05 11:43:18


.. role:: comment
.. role:: company
.. role:: spell

.. |HnB| replace:: :company:`Hammer & Block`
.. |AnB| replace:: :company:`Axe & Bow`
.. |SP| replace:: :company:`Serpents`
.. |WB| replace:: :company:`Wolf-banes`

This is an `actual play`_ report from our 4e *Dungeons and Dragons*
campaign.  These actual play reports are available in html_ from
T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/wvhtf/4e


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the DM at 12 o'clock:

+ M.A.F. as DM
+ P.D.F. playing Kelvish, the arrogant Eladrin wizard, and acting as scribe.
+ T.K.B. playing Grimnir, the reckless dwarf fighter.
+ B.MC. playing Wrathgar, the dragonborn paladin.
+ C.A.H. playing Angore, the indispensable human **[¿is that right?]** cleric. 

J.H. was unable to attend, alas.


Introduction
============

Since J.H. was unable to attend, and our regular campaign was at a
point where all the characters needed to be there, we switched and
played an alternate game, starting with the adventure from the 4e `D&D
Roleplaying Game Starter Set`__.

__ http://wizards.com/dnd/Product.aspx?x=dnd/products/dndacc/217120000


Actual Play
===========

Encounter 1: killed 2 goblins: 2 black blades. 10 cp, 40 gp.  Found
map of village (Harken) with Cliff's Brewery circled.

Encounter 2: killed 2 fire beetles and several goblins, spent most of
our time in a cloud, wedged the door shut, and fled.

Interlude: Got the villagers all set up in the rundown stockade, ready
for the goblin assault.  Bad guys left during the night.

Encounter 3: Loot the ancient evil tomb!  Jar of healing potions, 5
doses.  Long sword +1, evil.  Studded, ceremonial high priest of demon. 

Aftermath
=========

In after game discussion we decided that, although most of the
concerns we'd had about 4e were valid, we still had fun, and would
look forward to continuing this as a campaign when our regular 3.5 D&D
campaign couldn't run.

We each got **+800 XP**.

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

