.. title: WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #2: Sharks, Pirates, and Commerce
.. slug: s002-50F-2010-01-14
.. date: 2010-01-14 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,50 fathoms,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #2: Sharks, Pirates, and Commerce
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:date: 2010-01-14
:version: 2011-02-23 21:06:30



.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: skill

.. |50F| replace:: `50 Fathoms`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |50F| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports are available in html_ from T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms/
.. _`50 Fathoms`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plotpoints.html


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* T.K.B. — GM
* B.MC.  — playing Azrulektos, a Kraken warrior/wizard
* C.A.H. — playing Karl Kroc, a Masaquani treasure hunter and navigator
* M.A.H. — playing Moorumah, a charming but rather dim Grael 

Introduction
============

B.MC. contributed the following actual play report.

Actual Play
===========

Our story continues with our band of intrepid adventurers sailing
their hastily repaired skiff from the Savage Land to the pirate
haven of Brigandy Bay to sell the lumber salvaged from their
initial shipwreck. Along the way we happened upon the remains of a
battle, finding wreckage of a ship floating in the water with a
large portion of the stern section bobbing in the ocean waves. We
saw a man and a Scurilian standing on the stern yelling for help
which Murumah was happy to oblige by diving into the water to swim
over. Luckily Azrulecktos and Karl Kroc noticed the large great
white shark making its way to Marumah and Azrulecktos killed it
using his screaming water bolts.  We learned that the ship that
Black Bear (human) and Equias (Scurilian) were on was attacked by
the dread pirate Windy Jack Windham. We were able to salvage one
keg of brandy, one keg of whiskey and one keg of gunpowder.

We continued on to the questionable port of Brigandy Bay to find
a buyer for the lumber we had salvaged from our shipwreck on the
Savage Land and to buy provisions to travel to the larger port
of Swindon. We were able to sell three loads of lumber to Lessa
Larune for 900 pieces of 8 but Muramah had to perform a rapid
offloading of material (knocking would be pirates back) to keep
our unscrupulous buyer’s crew from stealing our skiff. Murumah
was able to find eight Grael that paid us 400 pieces of 8 (1300
total) for passage to Swindon. Twelve days of provisions for our
trip to Swindon cost 216 pieces of 8 (1084 po8 left) and the
addition of a cannon and 10 cannonballs for protection another
250 pieces of 8 (834 po8 left). There was also another cost of
280 pieces of 8 (554 po8 left)…not sure what for but I think it
was for papers to get us into Swindon with our passengers.

Karl Kroc’s skillful sailing helped us make the trip to Swindon in
10 days, saving 2 days worth of rations, and avoided possible
attack by Windy Jack (a well known pirate) when we spotted smoke
on the horizon, assumed to be a plundered ship. We had a tense
moment when we were boarded by the East India Company but Murumah
and the other Grael came to the rescue with their wild and raucous
singing which convinced the East India Company captain to let us
go.

Once we arrived in Swindon we proceeded to look for rumors and
repairs to our ship. We found both in a tavern called The
Gallows in the person of Garrin Glut. He agreed to repair our
ship for 140 pieces of 8, ½ up front and ½ after the repairs
were completed (take 3-6 days). Garrin also pointed us in the
direction of the Whip Islands for treasures…

GM Notes
========

During their visit to Brigandy Bay, Miguel Figuroa proved surprisingly
knowledgeable about the ways of pirates.


Aftermath
=========

The PCs each got **+2 XP**, and Azrulektos got **a bonus +1 XP** for B.MC.
writing up an actual play report.

(Azrulektos: 7 XP, Karl Kroc: 6 XP, Moorumah: 7 XP.)

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

