.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #4: Success at last!
.. slug: p004-ll
.. date: 2009-05-09 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/rpg/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

I got to run another Labyrinth Lord session for the kids_.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.
+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.
+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly* (a thief).
+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.
+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*.

Healing and Hunting
===================

After their narrow escape from the valley last time, they decided to
find a safe place away from the valley and rest and heal.  James and
Alice spent their days healing the wounded, while Drusilla spent her
days finding food for everybody.  After five days they were ready to
try again.

This time they made a plan: they'd lure out the orc guards into an
ambush, some staying outside out of immediate sight of the tunnel
entrance, while a couple went in and apparently got scared and ran
out.   Luckily the orc guards fell for the deception and headed outside.
The P.C.s slaughtered the guards, then moved in and systematically
cleaned the orcs' tunnel complex out, ending with the orc chieftain.
They even found the secret door.  Then it was back to town with their
loot. 



Reflections
===========

It was nice to see them have a solidly successful session, after
having two sessions in a row of spectacular failure.  They were so
excited that they were finally taking the monsters down.

We had more time to play this time, which helped a lot.  And having
the fourth player (and thus two more characters) made things move
along more smoothly, too.  These old-school modules really do need a
larger party of adventurers.

.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
