.. title: WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #3: Salvage, Pirates, and Enterprise
.. slug: s003-50F-2010-09-13
.. date: 2010-09-13 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,wvhtf,50 fathoms,savage worlds
.. category: gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



WVHTCF 50 Fathoms, Session #3: Salvage, Pirates, and Enterprise
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
:date: 2010-09-13
:version: 2011-02-23 21:06:50


.. role:: comment
.. role:: spell
.. role:: skill

.. |50F| replace:: `50 Fathoms`_
.. |PEG| replace:: `Pinnacle Entertainment Games`_
.. |SW|  replace:: `Savage Worlds`_

This is an `actual play`_ report from the |SW| |50F| `plot point`_ campaign from |PEG|.
These actual play reports are available in html_ from T.K.B.'s blog.

.. _`actual play`: http://www.actualplay.com/
.. _html: link://category/gaming/actual-play/WVHTF/50-Fathoms/
.. _`50 Fathoms`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`Pinnacle Entertainment Games`: http://www.peginc.com/
.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/games.html
.. _`plot point`: http://www.peginc.com/plotpoints.html


Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the GM:

* T.K.B. — GM
* B.MC.  — playing Azrulektos, a Kraken warrior/wizard
* C.A.H. — playing Karl Kroc, a Masaquani treasure hunter and navigator
* M.A.H. — playing Moorumah, a charming but rather dim Grael 

Introduction
============

C.A.H. contributed the (lightly formatted) actual play report for this
session.

Actual Play
===========

After an extensive recap of what their previous adventures had
been 8 months earlier, the party set out to make their fortune by
any and all ways (at least the mostly legal ways).  The overall
plan was to sail north from port to port, making enough profit as
a merchant to keep themselves fed, and hopefully purchase a
salvage license before heading to the Whip Islands where vast
wealth can be found.

But first we had to await boat repairs in Swindon.  Moorumah
decided it was best to wait in the shade, or perhaps underwater,
so she set out to find the "shadiest dive" she could.  While she
found shade there, there was no swimming, only beer.  There was
also apparently no arm wrestling allowed.  Disappointed, she left
the bar, but shortly afterwards a young Doreen girl challenged her
to a wrestling match for the contents of her purse.
Unsuprisingly, the Doreen was no match for a Grael.  Defeated, the
Doreen ran off to the docks and disappeared into the water
(apparently she enjoyed dives, even if they are not shady).
Azrulektos decided that he would like to help the Doreen
out. After a few rounds of catch with Moorumah's net, he hid by
the docks to wait for her to emerge from the water.  When she
eventually emerged, he presented her an employment opportunity
(and decided that using a fishing net was perhaps not the best
recruitment tool when seeking crew). We learned the Doreen's name
is Trix. We took her on as a lookout.

A few days later we topped off our provisions ($56) and finally
set sail.  Karl and Azrulektos worked out a merchant plan to
maximize profit while sailing up the coast.  Our first destination
was the fishing village of Bristo where we planned to take on food
cargo.  However, 1 day out, our new lookout proved profitable when
she spotted a possible ruin 80 yards down.  We stopped, and set up
a diving operation with Azrulektos, Moorumah, Karl, Trix, and
Mongrel.  Eight hours later we had found $625 in coins and
treasure, and decided to keep working.  This proved to be a good
decision, as we found a mansion containing lots of loot -- $5625
and a sealed vial containing a yellow liquid.  Miguel continued to
display hidden talents, and directed us to the ship's hidey hole
to store our newfound wealth. We continued on to Bristo without
further incident.

In Bristo we had no difficulty finding and securing 4 cargo spaces
worth of food from the harbor master Thomas Crane for $440.  We
did not stay over, as there was nothing much to do (other than
clean up Moorumah's rat hunting), and the crew was eager to get to
a large port (Baltimus) to spend their earnings (our first big
profit since our original shipwreck nearly a month ago). However
it was not to be an uneventful trip.

Three days out we cleared a fog bank to find ourselves on the
scene of a very recent act of piracy.  Indeed the pirates had not
yet vacated the area, as they seemed to be engaging in a drunken
revelry over their recent profit. Moorumah followed her usual
course upon encountering a battle scene and cannon-balled into
water and began to swim to the nearest boat.  The pirates were so
engaged in their festivities that they failed to notice her, or
even our ship (until it was too late).  We loaded the cannon with
grapeshot, and "crossed the T", killing nearly half of them
outright.  We then pulled along side them and prepared to board,
while Moorumah climbed up from the other side.  Partying pirates
were no match for a partying Grael, who began pulverising them one
by one, howling with victory after each kill. Azrulektos's water
bolts and Karl's pistols and rapier were equally deadly, and the
combat was over in three rounds.

We now find ourselves in possession of a black sloop, 4 storage units
of iron, $1700, and a whole lot of guns.  As well as two seriously
injured victims of the pirates (whom we healed to the best of our
abilities).  We decide the best course of action is to leave half the
guns and money (kept $800) on the pirate ship to reduce suspicion of
looting, and sail it behind our own boat into Baltimus.  Just out of
site of the port Azrulektos hides our salvaged goods in a chest
underwater.  Upon arriving in port, we are greeted by many soldiers
and cannon, who are suspicious of the known pirate vessel (The Black
Falcon).  We convince them we are not pirates and that we have killed
the pirate captain Patrick Triloni **[Patrik Trelawany, to be precise
— GM]** (Moorumah helpfully displays his corpse).  We express interest
in aquiring a Letter of Marque, and also in upgrading from our boat to
the captured boat.  The harbormaster tells us there are some legal
issues to work out, and it will take a few days, we decide we will use
the time to take a cargo of Goods up to Calib's Rock, and then return
with another load of Food.  But first we sell our current load for
$1200, pay the crew their long awaited wages of $350, buy a salvage
license for $1000, a compass for $500, and spend $70 restocking our
rations.  As well as some time and money carousing.

Funds:
------

=======  ======================================================================
$414     start
($56)    rations
$3125    salvage (+$3125 in non cash)
($440)   buy Food cargo
($15)    3 grape shot
$800     pirate booty
$1200    sell food cargo
($880)   buy Goods cargo
($350)   crew wages
($1000)  salvage license
($500)   compass
($70)    rations
($28)    Moorumah's carousing allowance  (need similar for Karl and Azrulektos)
=======  ======================================================================

Final assets:
-------------

* $2198 (+$3215 in our "offshore account")
* Yellow vial
* Cargo full of 4 Goods
* salvage license
* 10 muskets (ammo and powder?)
* 12 pistols
* 2 remaining grapeshot
* 10 cannonballs
* 9? charges of powder
* Unknown profit from pirate sloop capture/pirate bounty.
* +2 XP for everyone (+1 XP to C.A.H. for journal)

Cargo plans:
------------

(subject to change if we change boats or pick up a second cannon)

* Goods to Calib's Rock for $1200, buy food for $440
* Food To Baltiums for $1200, buy goods for $880
* Goods to Calib's Rock for $1200 (If double run is possible)
* Buy Goods in Tuck for $440
* Goods to Caresia for $800

Aftermath
=========

Each PC each got **+2 XP**, and Karl Kroc got **a bonus +1 XP** for C.A.H. 
writing up an actual play report.

(Azrulektos: 9 XP, Karl Kroc: 9 XP, Moorumah: 9 XP.)

Privateers
==========

When the PCs brought in their capture, I wasn't sure how to handle it.
The |50F| rules, on p. 35, essentially say that privateers must first
buy a letter of marque for $15,000, and then they get a **25%** bounty
on captured ships.  That commission is much, much lower than typical
historical amounts.  Moreover, if someone captures a pirate ship
without a letter of marque they get a token bounty of **10%**.  I
decided that I'd look into the historical values, and decide what to
do before the next session, and in the meantime the authorities told
the PCs there were some legal details to work out.

C.A.H.'s Research
-----------------

C.A.H found the following online, in the paper 
`Privateering and National Defense: Naval Warfare for Private Profit`__, 
by Larry J. Sechrest:

    Once the ship was declared a “lawful prize”, the court issued the
    decree of condemnation, and she and her cargo would be sold at
    auction. However, the gross proceeds from that sale were not received
    by the privateer. Three deductions first had to be made. As payment
    for their services, small percentages went to the auctioneer, the
    marshal, and the clerk of the court. A further, much larger deduction
    was also necessary. Since the goods that made up the prize’s cargo now
    represented “imports”, customs duties were imposed. Although the
    magnitude of these duties varied with the nature of the goods, Garitee
    estimates that during the War of 1812 such taxes usually reduced the
    revenue accruing to American privateers by 30-40%.  The owners of
    privateers protested so angrily against these high duties that, in
    August of 1813, Congress reduced the taxes on “imported” prize goods
    by one-third.

    British and American prize courts operated in very similar ways even
    after the American Revolutionary War. And yet, during the earlier
    period of letter of marque activity, British privateers---including of
    course those outfitted in Britain’s American colonies---were
    confronted with deductions from the gross prize proceeds that included
    not only court costs and import duties but also a share for the
    crown. This share varied from one-half to one-tenth. Due to the
    growing economic importance and political influence of privateers, the
    crown’s share was gradually reduced and, in 1708, eliminated
    altogether.  As a result, privateer profits increased by as much as
    30%.

__ http://www.independent.org/pdf/working_papers/41_privateering.pdf

Decisions, Decisions
--------------------

Option 1
++++++++

..
   (let* ((total   (+ 20000 (* 4 800)))
          (bounty  (* total .10))
	  (net     (- bounty 15000)))
     `(total: ,total bounty: ,bounty net: ,net))
     ;(total: 23200 bounty: 2320.0 net: -12680.0)

So, with the |50F| rules, the sloop and its cargo are worth $23,200,
but the bounty for someone without a letter of marque is only $2,320,
and if they get the letter of marque it leaves them in the hole by
$12,680. 

..
   (let* ((total   (+ 20000 (* 4 800)))
          (tax     (* total .26))
	  (net     (- total tax))
	  (license (- net 15000)))
     `(total: ,total tax: ,tax net: ,net license: ,license))
     ;(total: 23200 tax: 6032.0 net: 17168.0 license: 2168.0)

I was originally tempted to go with something closer to the real-world
values: say, 1% fee for selling the ship and cargo, and a 25% tax on
the value of the seized ship and cargo.  That would mean that the
sloop and cargo would net the PCs $17,168, minus $15,000 for the
letter of marque, leaving the PCs with $2,168.

On the other hand, handing over this much money to the PCs might make
the trade economy in |50F| go crazy.

Option 2
++++++++

..
   (let* ((total   (+ 20000 (* 4 800)))
          (tax     (* total .50))
	  (net     (- total tax))
	  (license (- net 1000)))
     `(total: ,total tax: ,tax net: ,net license: ,license))
     ;(total: 23200 tax: 11600.0 net: 11600.0 license: 10600.0)

In `Pirates of the Spanish Main`__ (`PotSM`), judging by the
discussion on pages 70 and 207, a letter of marque costs $1,000 and
privateers must pay 50% of their spoils to the crown.  That means that
the sloop and cargo, minus the cost of the letter of marque, would
leave the PCs with a net of $10,600.  Ouch.  That seems too much.

__ http://www.studio2publishing.com/shop/advanced_search_result.php?keywords=pirates+of+the+spanish+main&osCsid=f91402e43b527ecec13e40a3c1be3c57

Option 3
++++++++

..
   (let* ((total   (+ 20000 (* 4 800)))
          (tax     (* total .50))
	  (net     (- total tax))
	  (license (- net 15000)))
     `(total: ,total tax: ,tax net: ,net license: ,license))
     ;(total: 23200 tax: 11600.0 net: 11600.0 license: -3400.0)

If we combine the |50F| letter of marque cost of $15,000 with the
`PotSM` bounty of 50%, that leaves the PCs owing the Baltimus
authorities $3,400.  That seemed reasonable to me.

Option 4
++++++++

But it's not that simple.  The PCs want to *keep* the sloop they
captured, and *sell* the skiff they have.

..
   (let* ((sloop   20000)
          (cargo   (* 4 800))
   	  (skiff   10000)
	  (skiff+  (+ skiff cargo))
          (tax     (* (+ sloop cargo) .50))
	  (net     (- skiff+ tax))
	  (license (- net 15000)))
     `(sloop: ,sloop tax: ,tax skiff+: ,skiff+ net: ,net license: ,license))
     ; (sloop: 20000 tax: 11600.0 skiff+: 13200 net: 1600.0 license: -13400.0)

If the authorities let them substitute the skiff for the sloop they'd
still have to pay the whole tax on the sloop and the cargo, $11,600,
and they'd have only the sale price of the skiff and the cargo,
$13,200, and they'd still have to pay for the license, which would
leave them owing the authorities $13,000.

After E-mail
++++++++++++

In the end, the e-mail discussion lead the players to choose Option 3.

As was mentioned in the e-mail discussion, there wasn't a specific
bounty for Patrick Trelawany.

C.A.H. said: “We left $4800 worth of firearms + $900 in cash on the sloop”.
Ok, the PCs get 50% of the cash, $450, and 25% of the firearms, $1200.

Reflections
===========

It was interesting to see that even with Karl Kroc's **d10 Knowledge
(Navigation)** there were at least two occasions where C.A.H. had to
resort to bennies to keep from running off course.

.. Local Variables:
.. time-stamp-format: "%:y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M:%02S"
.. time-stamp-start: ":version:[ 	]+\\\\?"
.. time-stamp-end: "\\\\?\n"
.. End: 

