.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #16
.. slug: p016-ll
.. date: 2010-07-11 23:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.

+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly*
  (a thief).

+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.

+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.

+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*

Actual Play
===========

The evil hero from room **41** in the Caves of Chaos killed 2 guards,
nearly killed the banker from the Keep, room **11**, and stole gems
and statue and weapons and plate, then leaves keep by west wall.  Dru
tracks him across river, into Pine Woods, to a cliff with cave formed
by leaning stone slab, and the PCs kill him.  They return the stolen
goods. 

Back to the Caves.  Via **43** to **44**, killed 2 fire beetles, got
2×3 glands.  Followed confusing passageway until they saw the
entrance, exited and reentered, wandered into **42**.  Taffy, Alice,
and Drusilla got impaled by stirges.  They killed the impaling stirges
and Glen cast sleep on the remaining, flying stirges.  The stirges
fell from the air, hit the ground, and started to wake, disoriented.
PCs get initiative and kill all the stirges before the stirges recover
enough to defend themselves.  On to **45**, where Taffy & Alice did
double damage and finished off the minotaur.  Jewelry was a torc and 2
armbands.  Total Treasure: 4185 gp.  Each: 523 gp 1 sp 2 cp 2
farthings. Treasure excludes magic  James got magic plate and sold old
plate, 37.5 gp each.

.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
