.. title: Recent Reading
.. slug: 2003-11-09
.. date: 2003-11-09 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


+ `The Road to Middle-Earth`, Revised and Expanded Edition, by Tom
  Shippey.  (Copyright 2003).  Most literary critics have regarded
  Tolkien's fiction with disdain, denied that it could have any merit
  for an adult reader, and have consistently misunderstood and
  misinterpreted it, when they *have* bothered to read it at all.  In
  Shippey's words, it makes “[...] many literary critics avert their
  eyes, get names wrong, write about things that aren't there, and miss
  the most obvious points of success.” Shippey's book starts with the
  idea that this disdain may be a reflection of the antipathy between
  the proponents of “Lit.” and “Lang.”, between the literary
  critics and teachers of literature on the one hand and the
  philologists, including Tolkien, on the other hand.  Shippey examines
  how Tolkien's professional background led to and influenced the
  creation of `The Lord of the Ring` and shows the subtleties involved
  in that creation that are almost inevitably missed by the literary
  critics.

Science fiction and fantasy often regarded with disdain by literary
critics, frequently even more than other “genre” fiction.  I think
literary critics are looking for certain specific criteria when they
judge a work and are not willing to consider that their criteria may
*not*, in fact, be universally useful in judging all works.  In effect,
they are blinded by their preconceived notions and miss the things
that make some science fiction or fantasy good.

In practice I think that the criteria for judging science fiction and
fantasy and the criteria for judging literature are overlapping sets:
some criteria are shared, but there are additional criteria that must
be considered when judging science fiction or fantasy, and some of the
criteria for literature don't apply.
