.. title: Actual Play: T.A.'s Savage Worlds Game, Part 1
.. slug: t.a.s-savage-worlds-game-part-1
.. date: 2008-08-17 19:30:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: actual-play,rpg,savage worlds,kids,fantasy
.. category: gaming/rpg/actual-play/the-kids/kids-gming
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



Background
==========

T.A. has been coming up with maps and ideas for roleplaying games for
a while now, and earlier this week while we were talking about RPGs he
said he had a Savage Worlds game he wanted to run.  I suggested we do
it today, Saturday, in the afteroon, and that's what we did.

His sister E.A. and brother M.A were the only ones of the kids_
around, and they both wanted to play.  We decided to play outside, at
a small picnic table in the shade, on top of a large blanket so
dropped dice would be easy to find.  (T.A.'s idea, and a very good
one.)  It took a while to get everything set up, and the kids were a
little impatient; I can't blame them.  But we finally got going.  I
brought up my Savage Worlds GM Screen and my Flip-Mats and dry-erase
pens.  E.A. and I got an extra benny each for shuffling cards, and
M.A. got a benny for helping set up the table.

T.A. had made several pregenerated characters, so we had a good
selection to choose from.  E.A. went for a healer again, M.A. picked a
wizard, and I picked out a theif and combat mage.  E.A. came up with a
name for her character, Eureka, but M.A. was stuck, so I asked if he
wanted help, and he did.  We ended up naming his wizard Ragnar, so I
stuck with that for a theme and named my thief Loki and my fire-themed
combat mage Surt.

T.A. had made a map of a cavern/dungeon and decided on the monster
stats and locations, but beyond that hadn't written anything down.  He
had thought about what he wanted a lot, though, and had it all in his
head.

Actual Play
===========

T.A. told us that our characters had seen notices posted that a small,
nearby village was seeking adventurers to help with deal with goblin
raiders.  A short time later were were talking with the headman of the
village, who after some talking promised us 50 gp each in advance and
another 50 gp each after the job was done.  A short time later we were
headed out to the trail the goblins took after their raids.

The trail eventually lead up to the base of a hill and an cavern
entrance. 

E.A. aced Eureka's Notice roll as we snuck into the entrance and
noticed something weird about the wall.  It turned out to be a secret
door, leading down a short passage and through another secret door
into a room with a giant spider just settling down for a nap.
Luckily, Loki had eased the 2nd secret door open quietly, so Ragnar
tried to cast a Bolt at the spider.  Unfortunately, M.A. rolled snake
eyes (ones on both his Spellcasting and his Wild Die), and woke the
spell up.  Next round he spent a benny to get rid of the shaken and
aced his Spellcasting roll, aced the damage roll, and so much for the
spider.

After that we worked our way through a guardroom and a kitchen, each
with goblins and dire wolves.  As it turned out, the guards had
screamed loud enough for the cook to hear something, but we sent in
Ragnar in rat form and he saw the layout of the room and reported back
to us.  We burst in the door, catching the dire wolf with it and
stunning it.  The cook died fast, but the dire wolf took forever to
kill due to some really lucky rolls.  We had it stunned at least 3
times, but could never land another until Surt got the Joker, took a
multi-action penalty to cast the spell smite and attack in the same
round and aced his Spellcasting roll, killing the dire wolf with one
massive blow.  He immediately set about skinning the wolf, to take the
hide back and have it tanned.  And that's were we stopped.

Reflections
===========

T.A. did several neat things.  Whenever a PC made a **really** good
search roll and found something magical, T.A. rolled to see which PC
the magic item would best suit, then made up a nifty magic item on the
spot for that character.  The healer got a Staff of Healing that
couldn't be used for attacking, but would give the healer a bonus on
any healing related roll.  The combat mage ended up with a longsword
that added a bonus to the damage for his Smite power.  Later, when
Surt wanted the hide of the dire wolf that he finally killed after it
had given the party a long fight, T.A. said that when it was tanned it
would give him +1 Armor to attacks from the back.  Neither the rolling
for who the magic item would suit nor the making up the magic items on
the spot was anything he'd seen me do, but it worked well, he came up
with nifty magic items that weren't overpowering, and it was neat: no
boring “you find a +1 sword” here.  In some ways I think it was very
“Old School”, in a good way.  (I'll talk about “Old School” some other
time.)


.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
