.. title: Notes
.. slug: notes
.. date: 2019-11-06 10:56:40 UTC-05:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Notes
=====

My First Book
-------------

The first book that I read was `Singing Wheels`; I asked my parents to
read it to me many, many times before I learned to read, so I'm sure
they were glad when I could finally read it on my own.

Why Is Everybody Too Busy?
--------------------------

Why is everybody I know too busy? Nobody seems to have any time for
enjoying life and just plain contemplation.

Jane Lew
--------

Jane Lew is a tiny hamlet in Lewis County in central West Virginia,
slightly south of the the Harrison/Lewis county border. It is, if I
remember correctly, named after the wife, Jane Lewis, of one of the
earlier settlers in the area.

Jesse's Run
-----------

Jesse's Run is a small creek near Jane Lew that is named after Jesse
Hughes, the local historical homicidal maniac. He was early settler in
the area (his cabin was apparently located where the Jane Lew exit
overpass is now, at the mouth of Jesse's Run) and a number of stories
are told locally about his unpleasant relations (that's where the
homicidal mania comes in) with the Indians of the area, including one
that appears to be a variation on a legend told about an ancient Greek
hero.

The Desk From Hell
------------------

My friends and family sometimes talk about my Desk From Hell. I don't
see why: it only takes five full carloads to transport the small
version. And the micro version fits in a 39 inch wide, 7 foot tall, 36
inch deep cube! Of course, even I haven't seen the *full* version for
some time. The large version is a L shape with both legs 80 inches
long 32 inches deep. It is about 83 inches tall.

Alas, The Desk From Hell is gone, collapsed into a single moderately
sized table. (October 1998)

SPI
---

SPI was the company that published (among other things) the
`DragonQuest` role-playing game. Apparently it was eventually taken
over by TSR and dissolved, alas. (Greg Costikyan's `analysis of the
death of wargames`__ (or you can find the "A Farewell to
Hexes" link from his `SPI Compendium
<http://www.costik.com/spicom/index.html>`__) contains the clearest
explanation of what happened to SPI that I have found.)  DQ was the
first roleplaying game I played after starting with AD&D, and was a
breath of clean air: short, clear, simple, and reasonably flexible.

__ http://web.archive.org/web/20011004080850/www.crossover.com/costik/spisins.html

.. _why:

Why Write a Campaign History?
-----------------------------

Why did I write the `Frontiers of Alusia` `campaign history
<link://slug/alusia-campaign>`__? Since we only got together to play once or
twice every couple of years in the last years of the campaign, I had
trouble remembering when certain events had happened and what
non-player characters the characters had met and when they had met,
and where the characters had been. I knew that if *I* had trouble
remembering, the *players* certainly would also. For some time I had
been writing quick summaries in my notes after we'd played a session,
so I took those and wrote up a campaign history and bugged the players
for comments. Eventually it turned into a good-sized pamphlet. Later I
converted it (using unroff_, an application written in `Elk Scheme`_)
to HTML.  (If you are interesting in `Elk Scheme`, check out the new
maintainer_.)

.. _unroff: http://www-rn.informatik.uni-bremen.de/software/unroff/
.. _`Elk Scheme`: http://www-rn.informatik.uni-bremen.de/software/elk/
.. _maintainer: http://sam.zoy.org/elk/

What is Steampunk?
------------------

Steampunk is a sub-genre of science fiction or fantasy which presents
an alternate history in which Victorian era science is considerably
more advanced in one or more fields than in our history, either
because a Victorian era theory such as the Luminous Ether was actually
correct, or because some real or possible technology was developed
earlier than in our history (such as computers or anti-matter). The
"Steam" comes from the prevalence of steam-powered mechanisms in
actual Victorian history.

Some examples of the genre are K.W. Jetter's `The Infernal Device`,
James. P. Blaylock's books about Langdon St. Ives (`Homunculus` and
`Lord Kelvin's Machine`), `The Difference Engine` by William Gibson
and Bruce Sterling and `Anti-Ice` by Stephen Baxter.

Rereading Books
---------------

I've always reread books, as far back as I can remember, starting with
`Singing Wheels`, the first book that I read. I've always been a very
quick reader (though not at the expense of comprehension, of course),
and I often read and reread books that appealed to me several times.
The book I've probably read the most times is `The Riddlemaster of
Hed` by Patricia A. McKillip; I lost track sometime in the middle 10s
of how many times I've read it. There are some books that I reread
every few (one, two, five, ten) years to see how the book and I have
changed as I've grown older. Patrick O'Brian's “Aubrey and Maturin”
books are in this category; I am usually in the middle of one of these
at any moment, and I've on occasion finished the series (all twenty & ½ of
them) and started back again on the first one.

In the Middle
-------------

I often (even usually) have several books that I'm working on at one
time. When I was in my early to mid teens I often had five or more
that I was involved in at one time, reading fifty pages or so of one
and then turning to another. At other times I've put down one book for
several years, then have taken it up again at the same place later.
