.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #17
.. slug: p017-ll
.. date: 2010-07-25 23:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/rpg/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice
.. role:: skill
.. role:: spell

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.

+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly*
  (a thief).

+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.

+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.

+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*

Actual Play
===========

Entered **G** and went right to **33** where they killed the 3 gray
oozes and found the jewel-encrusted goblet (1,300 gp) in the pool.
Found 2 sp searching debris of **32**\ s, then attacked by owlbear from
**34**.  Found scroll with *protection from undead*.  Went back to
Keep to rest and heal.

Entered **J**, the Gnoll lair and **46**, then **47** 25 gp 4 sp 10
cp, sable cloak (450 gp).  **48** Cursed sword to Dru.  (I skipped the
ale out of deference to my sister, mother of three of my players.)
**49** killed all, 7 gp & 55 sp.  **50** 2 silver arm bands @ 50 gp
each, 39 gp, sons total 10 gp 10 ep 10 sp.  4 wives: 4×silver neck
chains @ 30 gp each & 28 ep total.  Pot below flagstone, 200 cp, 157
sp, 76 ep, 139 gp.  

**Discovered secret door!**

Last day of summer campaign, as L.B. had to leave the next for Alabama
and her mom's for the school year.


.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
