.. title: Chaosium
.. slug: 2004-08-10
.. date: 2004-08-10 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,rpg,chaosium
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


Chaosium seems to be trying to get things published in a more timely
fashion.  Probably for cash-flow reasons (ever the bane of the small
RPG publisher) this seems to be reflected mostly in their Miskatonic
University Library Association Monographs series, which are digitally
produced small run publications in cardstock covers and tape bindings,
with all the editing and layout done by the authors.  This should give
them an opportunaty to produce interesting works faster with minimal
costs, as well as give them a less risky venue for experimenting.  I
hope it works well for them.

I haven't seen any of these yet, but several look interesting from
their descriptions:


+ *The First Book of Things*, by Michael C. LaBossiere. This looks
  like a fun collection of creatures, technology, and magic.
+ *Mysteries of Morocco*, by William Jones.  A “civil, geographical,
  cultural, political, and a Mythos tour of Morocco during the 1920s and
  1930s”, covering several locations and including a scenario and
  several maps.
+ *Cthulhu Invictus*, by Chad Bowser, Andi Newton, and Deane P.
  Goodwin.  “Horror Roleplaying in Ancient Rome.” I presume from the
  name that this involves the Cthulhu Mythos in ancient Rome, but I
  think that you could easily find enough horror without it.  `Thomas
  Harlan <http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/search-handle-
  form/104-6530607-2018313>`__'s *Oath of Empire* series would be good
  inspiration for this, if rather later than what we normally think of
  when talking about ancient Rome.


Interestingly, the *Player's Book* and *Magic Book* from *Runequest*,
3rd edition were available for a couple of days as the *BRP Player's
Book* and the *BRP Magic Book*, but were apparently removed after a
more plan for republishing them was conceived and put into motion.  It
certainly would be interesting to see a *Runequest*-derived core RPG
published in the modern world.  Of course, between *Call of Cthulhu*
and *Stormbringer* one already has all the necessary rules in print,
but it would be nice to see them all presented in one package, well
edited and integrated.

With the possibility of this and the actuality of the republishing of
the West End Games house system as a (more-or-less) generic system it
will be interesting to see how they succeed in the market against
existing universal systems such as *GURPS*, *Hero*, and *Tri-Stat*.
