.. title: Return to Alusia, part 4
.. slug: return-to-alusia-part-4
.. date: 2008-07-04 21:30:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: savage worlds,rpg,actual-play,timewarp,kids,alusia
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/alusia
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


Introduction
============

One of the games I ran over the holiday continued a *Savage Worlds*
adventure that I started at Christmas 2007.  The adventure is set in
the *Frontiers of Alusia* sometime during the later stages of my
original *Frontiers of Alusia* *DragonQuest* campaign, but set away
from the scenes and characters of that earlier series. 

Prehistory
==========

In December 2007 I was looking for an adventure to run for the kids_ at
the family get-together at Christmas.  I'd been looking at my notes
from my old *Frontiers of Alusia* campaign and decided it would be
neat to revisit *Alusia* since my brother, one of the players in my
original *Alusia* campaign [#no-Alusia-supplements]_, would be in for
Christmas and would probably be playing with the kids.  Of course,
instead of using *DragonQuest* or *GURPS*, the systems I'd used in the
original campaign, I wanted to use `Savage Worlds`_, especially since I
was giving all the kids who were old enough copies of *Savage Worlds:
Explorer's Edition* that Christmas.  I decided to reuse *The Tomb
of Aghyar*, an adventure I'd written for another group that had
adventured for a short time in my version of *The Frontiers of
Alusia*, and have my original group's characters feature prominently
in the city's gossip but not actually appear in the adventure.

.. _`Savage Worlds`: http://www.peginc.com/

I took the map I drew for the original adventure, added some more
rooms, worked up *Savage Worlds* stats for the opposition (borrowing
from *Noble Deceit* for some thieves guild types), and printed out
copies of the pre-generated characters from *Against the Orcs* and
*Noble Deceit* for the players to choose from, and off we went.  It
went well, my brother was pleasantly surprised when he figured out
what was happening, and everybody had fun being chased by the Thieves
Guild, figuring out where the tomb was located, and finally venturing
into the tomb itself.  As is not uncommon when playing with the kids
we didn't finish the adventure that evening, and so had to wait for
the next time my brother and his family were in town to continue it.
My nephew from out-of-state repeated mentioned how he was looking
forward to playing “those games with dice” when he came back for the
summer.

Revamp
======

Fast forward to the summer 2008 visit.  The night before we played I
decided to remap the dungeon and redo the encounters to add a bit more
zing.  I was interested by D&D 4E's increased emphasis on encounters
with more dynamic aspects, having followed some of the Internet
discussions and read *H1 – Keep on the Shadowfell*, and wanted to see
what I could do with *Savage Worlds* to make encounters be more
dynamic.

`Wizards of the Coast`__ sells `Dungeon Tiles`__, heavy cardboard
[#real-cardboard]_ tiles with pretty dungeon and outdoor scenes marked
off in 1 inch squares.  They've also released similar tiles in the D&D
Basic Game sets in the past.

__ http://www.wizards.com/
__ http://wizards.com/default.asp?x=products/dndacc/0786943483

There is a browser-based Javascript program called `Dungeon Tiles
Mapper`__ that lets you design dungeons by dragging and dropping the
pictures of the tiles from all those sets onto a grid.  It lets you
print off pictues of the dungeons you've created along with a list of
the tiles needed to build it.

__ http://www.jailoco.net/jai.hordelings/dungeontilesmapper.htm

Anyway, I download the program and spend some time fiddling with it.
It has some quirks and some outright bugs, but overall it is very
useful.  I was able to make a more interesting dungeon layout pretty
easily.  I then spent some time rethinking the encounters, looking for
ways to make them more dynamic.

Actual Play, Part 1
===================

The first room I changed the least.  I already had an WC ooze and a
fire trap, but I added a vicious bug swarm in a pile of skulls in one
corner near the entrance.  When they looted the pile of skulls they
disturbed the swarm and after a couple of rounds where the two looters
failed to stop the swarm and the swarm failed to damage the looters,
everybody moved away to the other side of the room while one of them
used *fear* to send the swarm scurrying.  Of course, in the process
they moved into the area of the ooze, which was actually dispersed
under the dirt floor of the room.  It oozed up through and around
their legs, and they had to make *Strength* rolls to break free while
the ooze got to try to completely envelope one of them and all had a
chance of being damgaged by the acid ooze around their legs.  They
managed to break free, and one got off a lucky shot with their
crossbow, *acing* their *Shooting* roll and then *acing* the damage
roll so high I ruled that the shot hit the plum-sized brain of the
creature and killed it outright.  After that they searched the room,
avoiding the depression left by the ooze erupting from the floor and
the acidic liquid left by the dying ooze, and finally found a secret
door out.  Unfortunately, the rogue set off the trap on the door, a
fire blast, and caught fire and fell back into the remains ooze,
setting it on fire in turn.  Now they had to hurry to rescue him and
leave the room before the burning ooze rendered it unihabitable.  They
left through the new tunnel, which lead a few feet to a a shaft down
to another short corridor that opened up into a larger room.

That's where we broke for lunch.  

Actual Play, Part 2
===================

After lunch we switched play to a different house (mine, just next
door), and one of the younger players, M.A., wanted to play.  I had a
character sheet he could use [#spare-sheets]_, so on the spur of the
moment I added a mystical column of light in the next room as a prison
where the adventurers would find his new character.

That room was much larger, but I'd set it up with with a pool in the
middle that took up much of the room, and around several of the walls
were a number of alcoves.  When I added the mystical column of light,
I put it on a short circular pedestal on a square base in the middle
of the pool.  The PCs could easily jump (not even requiring a roll)
from the six-inch tall lip around the pool to the base, but could only
balance and move around the base with difficulty.  An early experiment
with poking the column of light with an unlit torch destroyed the
torch and revealed that the rather-more-viscous-than-water liquid in
the pool was very caustic.  Cautious investigation by T.B.'s combat mage
revealed the proper method of manually disabling the mystic column,
and after some careful manipulations by T.A.'s rogue, M.A.'s new PC, a
paladin of the Holy Light, was with the group.

While improvising a description of his _`cuirbouilli armor` during the
initial get-to-know-you conversation the serendipitous juxtaposition
of my description of a design on his armor and a *aced* *Smarts* roll
by L.B., who was playing a priestess of the Holy Light, inspired me to
add to the new paladin's backstory that he was the *last* living
paladin of the Holy Light, imprisoned here in agony for — his captors
thought — all eternity as punishment by the pirates who destroyed the
last stronghold of the order of the Paladins of the Holy Light, and
who it was thought had killed last Paladin of the Holy Light.  L.B.'s
priestess informed the rest of the group of the paladin's identity and
his importance, and several of the players immediately assumed the
paladin would set about reforming the Order of the Paladins of the
Holy Light.  M.A. thought all this was neat.  (He's 6, BTW.)

During all of this the PCs had dispersed around the room, and it was
at this point that they finally noticed that the liquid in the pool
had become very agitated, with waves as tall as a man, and suddenly it
was flinging globs of acidic gloop at them.  Several were hit, some
were injured, and one had his precious chainmail damaged by the gloop.
Luckily, they had the example of the earlier ooze's remains catching
on fire and had plenty of oil, and proceeded to set the gloop pool
ablaze, which quickly killed it, to my dismay. [#ooze-wc]_

Just before the beginning of the glooping, B.B.'s fighter made a
*Notice* roll and figured out that the dusty cobwebs in the alcoves at
both ends of the room concealed leathery corpses.  He wanted to start
stabbing the corpse in each alcove before moving on to the next.
Knowing that this would simply bring the corpses out to fight him as
he moved toward the alcove I decided it would be better to charge a
“Divine Inspiration” tax and take one of his *Bennies* and tell him it
was a **bad** idea, so they didn't end up fighting the eighteen
zombies at the same time as the *Wild Card* gloop.

However, as soon as they opened the door out of the room, the eighteen
zombies came out to attack.  Since B.B.'s fighter had noticed the
corpses earlier and warned the others of the alcoves' contents I gave
them a *Notice* role with a bonus, so they had a round to decide where
they would be when the zombies actually attacked.  Most lined up at
the end of the room with the door out, but D.B.'s dwarven fighter
moved back halfway through the room, planing to get a first shot at
the ones coming from the other side with his crossbow, then switch to
his axe.

It was M.A.'s paladin's turn to shine: he got the Joker for initiative
early in the fight and proceeded to *ace* his *Fighting* roll **and**
**really** *ace* his damage roll.  I decided that the return of the
Last Paladin of the Holy Light to the world and his almost immediate
return to the fight against Darkness was such a momentous occasion
that he had been inspired by the Holy Light and began to glow and his
sword, swung for the first time in over 200 years, cut through the
heads of the three nearest zombies even before they had completely
left the alcoves.  The paladin retained the glow and a small bonus
through-out the rest of the fight.  B.B. remarked that his fighter was
inspired by this, and slightly later in the fight when he *aced* one
of his rolls I ruled that *he* picked up a slight glow for the moment.
At the end of the fight B.B. decided he wanted to become a Paladin of
the Holy Light as well.

In the mean time, everybody else had been whacking at the zombies.
D.B.'s dwarf was doing wonders with *Sweep*, keeping a significant
number of the zombies from attacking the others from behind.  T.A.'s
rogue was stabbing away *Two-fisted* with his knives and both of the
girls (who had independently and without me knowing at the beginning
had picked two female clerics with *Pacifist*; I might have suggested
one or the other take one of the other female pregens without
*Pacifist* had I known) were quite happy to be taking out these
unnatural creatures.

T.B.'s combat mage had been plagued with really bad rolls all night,
and he was getting perturbed.  I had actually missed pointing out a
couple of bonuses he should have got that would have made one or two
of his earlier attacks hit, so I gave him a small bonus on his last
attack roll, which got him a hit with *raise* and with the extra *d6*
of damage he *aced* a couple of his damage dice and got to totally
disintegrate the last zombie, which made up for the bad time he had
earlier.

With the zombies truly dead and the gloop still blazing, it was time
again for some quick looting and then out the door to the next
encounter.  Unfortunately, we had to end things there, to be resumed
at Christmas 2008.

Remarks
=======

In hindsight, switching houses in the middle of the game was a bad
thing for the game [#good-overall]_: we lost a lot of time moving
things and setting up again.  On the other had, it did help get rid of
distractions.  I think in the future at this big family gatherings at
the farm I'll just plan to have gaming set up at my house, and we can
just migrate people there when it's time to play.

The *Dungeon Tiles* make nice looking dungeons, but are tedious to
organize; finding the right tiles takes too much time unless you can
do it before the game, and they are surprisingly bulky.  I still
haven't figured out if I've lost any of the tiles.  I need to try some
PDF tile sets to see if it's more convenient when I can just print out
as many tiles as I want on cardstock, instead of having a limited
number of much thicker tiles.

When playing with the kids, I tend to let really high *aces* do things
that are just plain cool, like letting a damage roll that *aced* with
enough raises to do a half-a-dozen wounds if the PC had been attacking
a *Wild Card* to instead take out several side-by-side *Extras*, and/or
add some cool **special effects**, like the glow and bonus for M.A.'s
paladin, the much shorter glow for B.B's fighter, and T.B.'s combat
mage's disintegration of the last zombie.

I also tend to be fairly lenient with bonuses if I realize I'd made a
mistake in an earlier round that could have made an earlier attack a
success, retconning those earlier misses into “you spent a couple
rounds getting this attack set up right, and boy did you hit it this
time!”  It's not going to do me any good to not recognize my mistakes
and hide behind the letter of rules and send a kid away from the table
unhappy.  All but one of the kids I play with regularly is 11 or
younger, and we often don't get to play more than once month, if that.
If I was playing with adults or older kids, or we played often enough
that even the younger kids had the rules down perfectly I'd be
stricter.

*Savage Worlds* doesn't have all of *D&D 4e*'s mechanics for dynamics,
such as special rules for *shifting* and *pushing* and *pulling*, and
I didn't really do anything particular in these sessions to do that
with *Savage Worlds* other than trying to have more terrain obstacles
and have more than one opponent per room.  Things seemed to be pretty
dynamic in play.  I think the things that *Savage Worlds* does have
still let you do dynamic things easily, though with more recourse to
GM judgement.

.. Note:: This is a timewarp_ post.

.. [#no-Alusia-supplements] The original campaign was based only on
   the original `The Frontiers of Alusia`_  supplement, which was just
   a map and 4 pages of terse descriptions that accompanied
   it.

.. _`The Frontiers of Alusia`: link://slug/dragonquest-and-i#frontiers-of-alusia-adventure-map

.. [#real-cardboard] These are *real* cardboard, heavy and stiff and
   about one sixteenth inch thick.

.. [#spare-sheets] Several of the *Savage Worlds* *Savage Tales*
   adventures come with pre-generated characters and figure flats for
   the characters (as well as the monsters for the adventure) so back
   at Christmas when I'd quickly put this adventure together I just
   printed out the sheets from a couple of the adventures and let the
   players pick which ones they liked the best.  That left me with
   several from which new players could pick.

.. [#ooze-wc] Perhaps using an ooze and a gloop that both could burn
   as *Wild Cards* in nearby rooms was not a good idea...

.. [#good-overall] It was still a good thing overall, since it got
   most of the kids and their commotion out of the house with most of
   the adults, so the stess levels for those adults went down.

.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids

.. _timewarp: link://slug/new-blog-first-post
