.. title: Recent Reading; Where free software is failing
.. slug: 2003-08-25
.. date: 2003-08-25 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading,free software
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


Recent Reading
--------------

+ `Transit to Scorpio`, as by Alan Burt Akers; actually written by Ken
  Bulmer.  The earlier books in this series have Alan Burt Akers listed as
  their author while the later books are listed under Dray Prescot, but
  they were actually written by Henry Kenneth Bulmer, a prolific writer
  of science fiction and other things.  The Dray Prescot Saga is a `long
  <http://www.kregen.com/booklist.html>`__ series in the planetary
  romance genre.  The first 37 of the books were published in English
  (starting in 1972 and continuing into the early 1990s) and the rest of
  the 52 books were published in German.  They are the story of Dray
  Prescot, a 18th century sailor who is transported to the distant
  planet of Kregen and his adventures there as nomad, slave, warrior,
  pirate, and reluctant troubleshooter for two opposing superhuman
  forces.  Like most classic planetary romance, these are rousing tales
  of adventure, straightforward wholesome escapist fantasy.  The length
  of the series, however, allows this to be something more than than a
  mere escape, as we watch Dray Prescot develop from a typical warrior
  stereotype into something more interesting and see how the many themes
  of the series (friendship, identity, fair play, prejudice, religion,
  and trust among them) develop through a much longer period than most
  authors are able to devote.

Where free software is failing
------------------------------

Daniel Barlow's blog for `Monday, 25 Aug 2003
<http://ww.telent.net/diary/2003/8/#25.67406>`__ talks about Tom
Lord's `post <http://lists.fifthvision.net/pipermail/arch-
users/2003-May/027591.html>`__ that talks about where Free Software is
failing to think ahead.
