.. title: BESM 4E - Initial Look
.. slug: besm-4e-initial-look
.. date: 2020-02-12 13:13:10 UTC-05:00
.. tags: rpg,besm
.. category: gaming/rpg
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

I took advantage of the Late Pledges option on the `BESM 4th
Edition`__ kickstarter and have access to the PDFs they've released so
far.  It is a further refinement of `BESM 3E` with some point costs
re-balanced.  Interestingly, the combat system in the BESM 4E core
book is very, very simple, with only an Attack roll versus a Defence
roll.  And the detailed list of skills from `BESM 2ER` and `BESM 3E`
have been replaced with 12 “Skill Groups”, separated into three types
based on how expensive the skill group is, rated by utility.  I'm
hoping that the planned `BESM Extras`__ book will include more combat
options and the more detailed skill rules.  (The `BESM 4E Character
Folio` seems to indicate the detailed skills will be in `BESM
Extras`.)

__ https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/370924922/besm-fourth-edition-big-eyes-small-mouth-rpg
__ https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/370924922/besm-fourth-edition-big-eyes-small-mouth-rpg/posts/2569713

I liked `BESM 3E`'s switch to roll over, which is continued in `BESM
4E`. There are 25 race templates and 25 class templates, up from `BESM
3E`'s 20 each, and 20 Humanoid Companions templates that can easily be
converted into race or class templates. `BESM 4E` introduces *edges*
and *obstacles*, which add 1 (for minor) or 2 (for major) dice to a
roll, keeping the 2 best (for edges) or 2 worst (for obstacles),
similar to `D&D 5E`'s advantage and disadvantage.

The way Standard and Custom Variables and Restrictions in `BESM 3E`
worked has changed and been renamed.  They are now Enhancements and
Limiters, and instead of having a character point cost they reduce or
increase the Effective Level of an attribute.  For instance, If you
have bought the Weapon Attribute up to 10 Levels and add the Accurate
Weapon Enhancement (1 assignment) and the Area standard Enhancement
for 10 metres radius (2 assignments) and the Range standard
Enhancement for 100 metres (3 assignments) and Ammo Weapon Limiter for
2-3 shots available (2 assignments) makes the Effective Level 6 (10 -
1 - 2 - 3 + 2).  This makes the cost of Enhancements and Limiters
proportional to the base cost of an Attribute.

It looks like the point costs for things are one-third to one-quarter
those of `BESM 3E`, which keeps things a little simpler.  Here are the
suggested power levels:

+----------------+------------------+
| Power Level    | Character Points |
+================+==================+
| Sub-Human      | 0-24             |
+----------------+------------------+
| Human          | 25-49            |
+----------------+------------------+
| Adventurer     | 50-74            |
+----------------+------------------+
| Heroic         | 75-99            |
+----------------+------------------+
| Mythical       | 100-149          |
+----------------+------------------+
| Superhuman     | 150-199          |
+----------------+------------------+
| Superpowered   | 200-249          |
+----------------+------------------+
| Godlike        | 250+             |
+----------------+------------------+

There is a 10 page index, which I was happy to see, but alas the
entries are not hyperlinked.  There are copious cross references by
page number, which is very useful, but again not hyperlinked.  The
table of contents is reasonably detailed, though again not
hyperlinked.

`BESM 4E` is firmly in the “GMs should fudge dice rolls if it will
make the game better.”  I'm ambivalent about that.

There is an 8-page section on Shojo roleplaying that seems
interesting.

The “Anime Multiverse” chapter seems identical between 3E and 4E and
presents an interesting short take on a multiverse cosmology, if you
need one.

Just like `BESM 3E`, `BESM 4E` has lots of colors.  Lots and lots of
colors.  (I can see no reason for one column of text on each page to
have a background color.)  I recognize most of the art from earlier
editions.  I liked it then and still like it.

There is a simple character sheet, in color and black-and-white
versions in the PDF of the core rulebook, or for download__ from the
Dyskami `BESM RPG`__ page.

__ http://dyskami.ca/downloads/BESM4_character_sheets.pdf
__ http://dyskami.ca/besm.html

Each of the `Dramatis Personae` PDFs give 15 example characters, with
backgrounds, personalities, discussion of their Attributes and
Defects, three Adventure Hooks, and a personal quote.  These are
useful in seeing how the various Attributes work.  The backgrounds are
tied into the Anime Multiverse from the core book.

All in all, I think it looks good.  If the things are in `BESM Extras`
that I hope are there, I can definitely see switching from `BESM 2ER`.
