.. title: Keep on the Borderlands, Play Session #9: Finishing the Orcs, and on to the Hobgoblins
.. slug: p009-ll
.. date: 2010-03-07 22:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: gaming,rpg,labyrinth lord,b2,d&d,kids,spoilers,keep on the borderlands
.. category: gaming/actual-play/the-kids/keep-on-the-borderlands
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


.. role:: dice(strong)
.. role:: skill(emphasis)
.. role:: spell(emphasis)

.. admonition:: Spoilers!

   We're playing *B2 — Keep on the Borderland*, so if you haven't
   played that you might want to skip this entry.

Attending
=========

Clockwise round the table, starting with the Labyrinth Lord:

+ T.K.B., the Labyrinth Lord.

+ T.A., playing *Glen the Strategist* (a wizard) and *Dooley the sly*
  (a thief).

+ M.A., playing *James the Cleric* and *Jeffrey the Monk*.

+ E.A., playing *Curufin the Elf* and *Drusilla the Ranger*.

+ L.B., playing *Taffy the Halfling* and *Alice the Cleric*

Finishing the Orcs
==================

**C**.  6 orcs from **14**: 5sp 12sp 3sp 7sp 6 scale armor, 2 light
crossbows, 6 morning stars.  

Curufin found the secret door to **13**, then kissed Taffy's hand.

Bow, quiver w/20 arrors, 2 swords, 2 daggers, 2 shields, 2 gems, 20
gp, 40sp.

Guard from **16**: 8 sp 1 gp, Chaimail, short sword.  Girl: ivory
bracelet (100 gp).  Orc leader: longsword, plate mail (to Alice),
shield, magic +1 hand axe (to Taffy), silver belt w/gold buckle, sword
w/100 gp gem in pommel, purse with 9 gp, 17 ep, 5 sp.  Storage Room:
wine barrel 55 gp, sack with 50 gp, rope of climbing, copper bowl 50
gp.

Dru & Curufin took shields, Dooley took 2 swords, Glen took the
daggers, Taffy took bow & quiver.  (Alice gave her chain to Drusilla.)

They went back to town and healed up.

On to the Hobgoblins
====================

They headed out towards the Caves of Chaos again, and this time they
approached **H**.  Taffy found the lever to move the bar.  They went
in and straight to **25**, where they killed 4 male hobgoblins and 4
females.  The males had 4 gp, 4 gp, 2gp and 4 gp, while the females
had 5 sp 10 sp 9 sp 6 sp and 9 sp.  They also had 4 scale armor, 5
leather armor.  Pewter diskes, 25 gp.  4 heavy picks (8 gp) and 5
maces (5 gp).


.. _kids: link://category/gaming/actual-play/the-kids
