.. title: Recent Reading
.. slug: 2004-01-04
.. date: 2004-01-04 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text



Recent Reading
--------------

+ *The Death of the Necromancer*, by Martha Wells; Avon, 1998.  I've
  read two of her other books (`Wizard Hunters
  <link://slug/2003-12-15#wells-wizard-hunters>`__ and `The
  Element of Fire <link://slug/2003-12-21#wells-element-of-
  fire>`__) and this one, like the others, is very good.  The setting is
  Ile-Rein again, but this time in a more psuedo-Victorian era, nicely
  adapted to the mostly subtle magic of Ile-Rein.  I highly recommend
  these books, and am going to look for more of her work.  (There is at
  least one of hers that I have not read yet: *City of Bones*.)
+ *Sorcerer: An Intense Roleplaying Game*, by Ron Edwards; Adept
  Press, 2001.  This small, slim hardback volume (260mm by 175mm, 144
  pages, counting the two pages of ads at the back) is the core rulebook
  for Edwards roleplaying game, *Sorcerer*.  It has a crisp, clean black-
  and-white interior design and layout by Paul Mason with a modicum of
  black-and-white art by divers hands and a color jacket cover with
  creepy and effective art by Jeff Kromer.  The writing is casual but not
  chatty and very clear.  It can be ordered directly from the game's home
  page, `http://www.sorcerer-rpg.com/ <http://www.sorcerer-rpg.com/>`__
  or bought at a good local games store.  Most existing roleplaying games
  give a lot of attention to the rules of the game and some give a lot
  of attention to the setting of the game and a few give some attention
  to the atmosphere of the game, but few give much attention to the
  purpose of the game and how the setting and the rules contribute to
  the purpose, and this lack of attention can be a considerable source
  of dissatisfaction with the game, the gaming group, and the rules of
  the game.  Ron Edwards' essay "System Does Matter", published `on the
  web <http://www.indie-rpgs.com/articles/11/>`__ and as an appendix in
  *Sorcerer*, gives the gamer some good tools for considering what they
  want out of a roleplaying game and judging whether a particular set of
  rules will help them achieve that, and anyone who is interested in
  roleplaying games should read it: it's probably one of the simpliest
  coherent places to start if you are interested in the theory of
  roleplaying.  [1]_ In *Sorcerer* Ron Edwards takes the theory that
  begins with that article and applies it (along with his ideals of
  creator-ownership of roleplaying games) and produces an innovative,
  focused roleplaying game with simple, clear rules that encourage
  flexibility and creativity while discarding many of the traditional
  trappings and constaints of roleplaying games.  *Sorcerer* does this by
  concentrating on *Narrativist* play, where the desired outcome of a
  roleplaying session is a good story.  This does not mean forcing the
  players along some pre-determined story, however; instead, *Sorcerer*
  concentrates on techniques for designing characters, adventures, and
  campaigns and tools for running games in such a way that good stories
  result from actual play.
+ *Sorcerer & Sword*, by Ron Edwards; Adept Press, 2001.  In this first
  supplement for *Sorcerer* Ron Edwards adapts his roleplaying game for
  playing games based on 1920s and 30s pulp fantasy and its inheritors:
  the *Conan* stories of Robert E. Howard, the *Fafhrd and the Grey
  Mouser* stories of Fritz Leiber, the *Elric* stories of Michael
  Moorcock, the *Kane* stories of Karl Edward Wagner, and many
  others.  Like the original game, *Sorcerer & Sword* is a practical
  application of Ron Edwards' theory of roleplaying; in this case, to
  providing the tools for a gaming group to create their own sword and
  sorcery epic.  In many ways it runs counter to most roleplaying games,
  eschewing complicated worldbuilding before play in favor of creating a
  world through play.





.. [1] There's a great deal of insightful, worthwhile writing on the
   theory of roleplaying in the archives of the newsgroup
   `rec.games.frp.advocacy <news://rec.games.frp.advocacy/>`__, but it
   can be very difficult to excavate.
