.. title: Recent Reading; RPG
.. slug: 2003-12-24
.. date: 2003-12-24 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading,rpg,glorantha
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

.. role:: series(title-reference)

Recent Reading
--------------

+ `The Lillyrian Adventure`, by Lloyd Alexander, 1986, E.P.  Dutton.
  This is an slight but enjoyable juvenile Ruritanian, somewhat marred
  by having an idiot narrator.  Although it's not as good as his
  :series:`Westmark Trilogy` (`Westmark`, `The Kestrel`, and `The
  Beggar Queen`), the Pyrdain Cycle, or `The Marvellous Misadventures
  of Sebastian`, it's still a fun read.

I hadn't realized that there were a significant number of people who
do not like the second :series:`Amber` series (I don't particularly follow
fandom).  I think they're being foolish, though: the second series,
while quite different in tone, are very good books.

RPG: Storytelling vs. Gaming
----------------------------

   I think there's a difference between 'caring about the story' and
   'attempting to contrive the plot'.  One can do the former without the
   latter.  — happyelf, forums.rpg.net post `1770248 <http://forum.rpg.net/s
   howthread.php?s=&postid=1770248#post1770248>`__.

There is an appearance of conflict between *Storytelling* gamers and
*Gamist* game players.  This is the old "Role- vs. Roll- players"
argument.  I think that several of Robin Laws games (including
`HeroQuest <http://www.glorantha.com/support/>`__) are good arguments
that there need be no *actual* conflict between the two.

Heroquest
---------

Ken Hite reviews `Heroquest` in his 
`December 21, 2003 <http://www.gamingreport.com/modules.php?op=modload&name=Sections&file=index&req=viewarticle&artid=91>`__ 
`Out of the Box <http://www.gamingreport.com/modules.php?op=modload&name=Sections&file=index&req=listarticles&secid=10>`__, 
and approves.  It's a short but good review.
