.. title: Recent Reading
.. slug: 2003-12-15
.. date: 2003-12-15 00:00:00 UTC-05:00
.. tags: old blog,recent reading
.. category: oldblog
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text


+ `King of the Wood`, by John Maddox Roberts, Tor, 1986.  This is one of
  the early, fantastic works of Roberts, who may be best known now for
  his SPQR mysteries featuring Roman Decius Cecilius Metellus.  `King of
  the Wood` is an interesting alternate history where the pagan Norse
  colonized what we knows as easter North America and introduced the
  horse, followed by Christian Norse, and the Aztecs still flourish,
  mixed with straightforward adventure and an appealing mixture of
  cultures.

.. wells-wizard-hunters:

+ `The Wizard Hunters`, by Martha Wells, HarperCollins, 2003.  Its good
  to see a fantasy that avoids the psuedo-medieval trappings of so much
  fantasy, and even better to find one that uses a setting that is more
  Edwardian, perhaps, though it is set in a world that is clearly not
  our own, despite some inklings of a common background.  As this is
  labeled “Book One of The Fall of Ile-rein” I look forward to
  reading the rest.
+ `Ode to a Banker`, by Lindsey Davis, Mysterious Press, 2001.  Another
  volume in Roman mystery series featuring wise-cracking private
  informer Marcus Didius Falco, this caries the series forward
  adequately.  It is good to see that he has avoided monetary
  embarrassment for a while longer.
+ `Crown of Slaves`, by David Weber & Eric Flint, Baen, 2003.  Billed as
  the start of a new series set in the universe of Honor Harrington,
  this book features Harrington only in a cameo appearance, focusing as
  it does on other characters, some introduced earlier, and does a good
  job.  I recently read someone who had a very low opinion of the Honor
  Harrington series, and it once again brought to mind the fact that
  people are looking for different things in their entertainment, and
  that this can blind them to those things that other people are looking
  for in their entertainment.  In an event, I think that this book, as
  with the other books set in Harrington's universe, does a very good
  job at what it sets out to, and is an enjoyable read for anyone who
  enjoys military/special ops/espionage science fiction.
